This document contains intelligence reports from 1964 regarding Cuban activities in Mexico and Latin America, as well as information on individuals connected to these activities.

**Key People:**

*   **Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez:** Cuban DGI officer stationed in the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City. He is involved in acquiring an automobile for the Cuban Embassy and is contacted by members of the Mexican Communist Party regarding travel to Cuba.
*   **Esther GAVILAN Rosales:** Wife of Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez. She traveled between Cuba and Mexico on diplomatic passports.
*   **Manuel PINEIRO:** Involved in authorizing or denying shipments of explosives.
*   **AMMUG-1:** Source of information, a former Cuban Intelligence Service officer.
*   **Antonio Hadik:** Reporter for Panorama, an Argentine magazine.
*   **Raul Cosio Villegas y Chapa:** Member of the Arts and Techniques Commission of the Sociedad Mexicana de Amistad con China Popular (SMACP).
*   **Juan Duch Collell:** Writer and member of the Central Committee of the Partido Comunista Mexicano (PCM).
*   **Daniel Mclina:** Of Politica, a Mexican Marxist magazine.
*   **Jose Miguel Fernandez Roa:** Third Secretary of the Cuban Embassy.
*   **Edmundo Jardos Arzate:** Director of Prensa Latina, Cuban news agency in Mexico City.
*   **Cesar Ballesteros:** Radio operator of Prensa Latina.
*   **Carlos Catala Fuentes:** Supporter for Prensa Latina.
*   **Novicky:** Second Secretary of the Embassy of Czechoslovakia.
*   **Dr. Gustavo Baz:** Individual to whom an invitation for July 26 was to be sent.

**Organizations:**

*   **Cuban Intelligence Service (DGI):** Cuban intelligence agency.
*   **Communist Party of El Salvador:** Requested explosives from Cuba.
*   **Cuban Embassy in Mexico City:** Center of Cuban activities in Mexico.
*   **Sociedad Mexicana de Amistad con China Popular (SMACP):** Mexican Society of Friendship with People's China.
*   **Partido Comunista Mexicano (PCM):** Mexican Communist Party.
*   **Prensa Latina:** Cuban news agency in Mexico City.
*   **Movimiento de Liberacion Nacional (MLN):** National Liberation Movement, a pro-Cuba, anti-United States communist front.

**Nations:**

*   **Cuba:** Involved in shipping explosives and organizing travel for individuals to attend celebrations.
*   **Mexico:** Location of Cuban Embassy and activities.
*   **El Salvador:** Destination for explosives requested by the Communist Party.
*   **Venezuela:** Destination of a previously exposed arms shipment.
*   **Argentina:** Country of origin for Antonio Hadik, a reporter for Panorama magazine.
*   **Peru:** Country of origin for a delegation traveling to Cuba.
*   **Costa Rica:** Country of origin for individuals traveling to Cuba.
*   **Czechoslovakia:** Country of origin for Novicky, Second Secretary of the Embassy of Czechoslovakia.

**Events:**

*   **Shipment of explosives to Mexico:** The Communist Party of El Salvador requested explosives be sent to Mexico, but the shipment was later canceled.
*   **26th of July Celebrations in Cuba:** Several individuals and delegations planned to travel to Cuba to attend these celebrations.

**Conclusions:**

*   Cuba was involved in supporting communist movements in Latin America, including El Salvador.
*   The Cuban Embassy in Mexico City served as a hub for Cuban intelligence and political activities in the region.
*   Travel to Cuba for events like the 26th of July celebrations was organized and facilitated by the Cuban government.
