This document is a secret communication from Mexico City to the Director, concerning intelligence on Jorge Antonio Abasolo Garcia, a Cuban industrial engineer.

**People:**

*   **Jorge Antonio Abasolo Garcia:** Cuban industrial engineer, DOB 1927, graduate of Georgia Tech. Chief of Division in Ministry of Industries, works closely with Ernesto "Che" Guevara.
*   **Marie Paz Someillan:** Jorge Antonio Abasolo Garcia's ex-wife, living in an unspecified location ("ANTY") with their two children.
*   **Ernesto "Che" Guevara:** Works closely with Jorge Antonio Abasolo Garcia.
*   **Gustavo Abasolo:** Jorge Antonio Abasolo Garcia's brother, works for Compania Interamericana de Seguros in Mexico, strongly anti-Castro, friend of AMSEVER-2.
*   **Joaquin Mirabal:** Communist, remarried to the divorced mother of Jorge Antonio Abasolo Garcia's ex-wife, former "Chief of Security Service" in Havana, recently promoted.
*   **AMSEVER-2:** Friend of Gustavo Abasolo, anti-Castro.

**Events:**

*   Jorge Antonio Abasolo Garcia visited Mexico in August 1963 to see his children but was prevented by his former wife.
*   Gustavo Abasolo left Cuba around 1959 or 1960.
*   Jorge Antonio Abasolo Garcia is planning to leave Cuba at the end of the year.

**Nations:**

*   Cuba
*   Mexico
*   Netherlands
*   Soviet Union
*   Bermuda

**Organizations:**

*   Ministry of Industries (Cuba)
*   Compania Interamericana de Seguros
*   Netherlands Embassy

**Conclusions:**

*   Jorge Antonio Abasolo Garcia has some contact with Soviets and believes they are constructing a submarine base in Cuba.
*   Gustavo Abasolo is willing to furnish "certain information" for A-2.
*   The station believes it might be able to persuade Jorge Antonio Abasolo Garcia to stay in place in Cuba.
