This document is a classified message from the Director of the CIA to MEXICO CEY, dated October 12, 1963, concerning LIANG SZU CH'ENG, a member of the CCP (Chinese Communist Party).

**People:**

*   **LIANG SZU CH'ENG:** A Chinese architect, professor, and member of the CCP. His background includes education at Tsinghua University, University of Pennsylvania, and Harvard. He held various positions in Chinese academic and architectural organizations. He gave a speech to the RPC on July 13, 1957 entitled "Why I Love Our Party."
*   **STPLATE 1:** An individual being sent to Mexico to establish contact with Liang.
*   **Lloyd George:** PI Staff
*   **Steve Kuhn:** DC/PED/08
*   **. Mertz:** CI Staff
*   **J. Whitten:** C/WH/3
*   **William C:** CPE

**Organizations:**

*   **CCP:** Chinese Communist Party
*   **CIA:** Central Intelligence Agency
*   **Tsinghua University**
*   **University of Pennsylvania**
*   **Harvard University**
*   **National Northeastern University**
*   **Academia Sinica**
*   **Yale University**
*   **China Democratic League**
*   **National Committee CPPCC**
*   **China Scientific and Technical Assoc**
*   **China Architectural Society**
*   **RPC**

**Events:**

*   **Seventh International Congress of Architects, Havana:** Liang was the Deputy Leader of the CPR delegation.

**Nations:**

*   **China**
*   **Mexico**
*   **Cuba**

**Key Points and Conclusions:**

*   The CIA is interested in Liang Szu Ch'eng and believes he might be open to defection.
*   "BEFLATE 1" believes Liang would make a good in place more.
*   "STPLATE 1" is being sent to Mexico to attempt to establish contact with Liang and determine his willingness to cooperate.
*   "STPLATE 1" will use a tourist cover and will only remain two days due to heavy personal comsions function.
*   The station should be prepared to provide a safehouse if contact is made.
*   "STPLATE 1" is arriving in Mexico on October 12th.
*   The station is authorized to advance operational funds and per diem to "STPLATE 1."