This document is a collection of CIA records related to Abram Chayes, a professor at Harvard Law School, and the Pugwash Conference held in Munich, Germany in August 1977. The documents were reviewed by the House Select Committee on Assassinations staff members in April 1978.

**Key People:**

*   **Abram Chayes:** Professor at Harvard Law School.
*   **Ruth Elliff:** DCD/FIO/PAO, CIA.
*   **Thomas A. Messer:** Acting Chief, USSR-EE Collection Group, CIA.
*   **Carl Djerassi:** Stanford University.
*   **Paul Doty:** Harvard University.
*   **Bernard T. Feld:** MIT.
*   **George B. Kistiakowsky:** Harvard University.
*   **Richard Rosecrance:** Cornell University.
*   **Jack P. Ruina:** MIT.
*   **Herbert Scoville:** McLean, Va.
*   **N. Murray Todd:** National Academy of Sciences.
*   **John S. Toll:** State University of New York.
*   **Monica Kramer**
*   **Rita Naman**
*   **John Souders:** OCI/SRE.
*   **Martha Mautner:** STATE/INR/DDR/RSE/SEY.
*   **Glenn Buchan:** OSR.
*   **William Chapin:** STATE/INR/DDR/PAT.

**Organizations:**

*   **CIA (Central Intelligence Agency):** Involved in collecting and disseminating information related to the Pugwash Conference and its attendees.
*   **Harvard Law School:** Abram Chayes' affiliation.
*   **House Select Committee on Assassinations:** Reviewed the documents.
*   **Pugwash Conference:** A conference held in Munich, Germany, in August 1977, focused on USSR External Policy.
*   **Harvard University**
*   **Stanford University**
*   **MIT (Massachusetts Institute of Technology)**
*   **Cornell University**
*   **National Academy of Sciences**
*   **State University of New York**

**Events:**

*   **Pugwash Conference (August 1977, Munich, Germany):** A conference focused on USSR External Policy, attended by Abram Chayes and other academics.
*   **House Select Committee on Assassinations Review (April 1978):** Review of CIA documents related to Abram Chayes and the Pugwash Conference.

**Nations:**

*   **United States**
*   **Germany**
*   **USSR (Soviet Union)**

**Conclusions:**

The CIA was actively collecting information on attendees of the Pugwash Conference, including Abram Chayes, and was interested in their views on topics such as nuclear proliferation, disarmament, nuclear test bans, and European security. The House Select Committee on Assassinations reviewed these CIA records.
