This document is a memorandum summarizing meetings held in Paris from January 31 to February 3, 1965, with AMLASH-1, a Cuban agent. The meetings covered a range of topics related to intelligence gathering and operations in Cuba.

**People:**

*   **AMLASH-1:** Cuban agent.
*   **ONTRICH:** Arranged meetings with AMLASH-1.
*   **Modesto Orlando Orozco Basulto (Bebo Orozco):** Infiltrated Cuba, potentially captured.
*   **Jose Vasquez Kerey:** Hiding in Cuba, Orozco attempted to rescue him.
*   **Gloria Cabrera:** Hiding Vasquez Kerey.
*   **AMICE-14 (Miguelito):** Established rat line used by Orozco.
*   **AMTRUNK-10:** Contact of AMLASH-1 in Cuba.
*   **UNSNAFU-9:** Contact for sending and receiving messages.
*   **Juan Ventura (AMUHIP-1's business partner):** In Geneva or Rome, used for sending letters.
*   **AMWHIP-1:** Briefed to inform Ventura and provide background on Gustavo Gonzalez.
*   **Gustavo Gonzalez:** Potential recruit for Cuban Intelligence Service.
*   **Pinero:** Involved in recruiting for Cuban Intelligence Service.
*   **Crombet:** President of the Communist Youth, expected to become president of FEU.
*   **Laparo Mora:** Expected to become vice-president of FEU.
*   **Fizzolo:** Contact regarding locomotives being shipped from France to Cuba.
*   **Alfredo Portela:** Friend of AMLASH-1.
*   **Samuel Gonzalez Rodriguez-Planes:** Member of the Ameijeiras group.
*   **Antonio Lusson y Batlle:** Chief of Operations of the General Staff of the Occidental Army.
*   **Raul Diaz Arguelles:** Chief of Artillery of the Occidental Army.
*   **Elpidio Baez Bigo:** Trusted Fidelman.
*   **Luis Manuel Cantillo Toirac:** Assigned to the Cuban Embassy in Madrid.
*   **Enrique Oltuski Osacki:** Close friend of Faustino Perez.
*   **Sergio Tollon:** Code clerk in the Embassy in Paris.
*   **Aragones:** Concerned about AMLASH-1's return to Cuba.
*   **Raul Castro:** Heir apparent to Fidel.
*   **Che Guevara:** Influential in the economic field.
*   **President Dorticos:** Has a good relationship with Fidel.
*   **Emilio Aragones:** Organizational secretary of the PURS.
*   **Faure Chomon:** Accused of organizing former 13th of March Revolutionary Directorate people.
*   **Alberto Mora:** DR person holding an important position.
*   **Ambassador Carrillo:** DR person holding an important position.
*   **Jose Naranjo:** DR person holding an important position.
*   **Anibal Escalante:** Being considered for a job outside Cuba.
*   **Orlando Blanco:** Consul of the Cuban Embassy in Bern, considered approachable.
*   **Enrique Rodriguez Loeches:** Cuban Ambassador in Rabat, considered approachable.
*   **Marina Garcia Gonzalez:** Assigned to the commercial section of the Cuban Embassy in Rabat, considered approachable.
*   **Lucy Echevarria:** Close friend of Ambassador Carrillo.
*   **Fidel Castro:** Leader of Cuba.

**Events:**

*   **Infiltration of Modesto Orlando Orozco Basulto into Cuba (December 21, 1964):** Orozco's mission was to rescue individuals hiding in Havana.
*   **FEU elections (February 10, 1965):** Crombet expected to become president.
*   **Shipment of locomotives from France to Cuba:** Precautions against sabotage were discussed.

**Nations:**

*   **Cuba**
*   **France**
*   **Rome**
*   **Venezuela**
*   **Brazil**
*   **Madrid**
*   **Bern**
*   **Rabat**

**Organizations:**

*   **DGI (Cuban Intelligence Service):** The goal was to recruit someone who could be assigned to Caracas, Venezuela.
*   **Communist Youth:** Crombet is the president.
*   **FEU:** Upcoming elections.
*   **PURS:** Emilio Aragones is the organizational secretary.
*   **13th of March Revolutionary Directorate (DR):** Faure Chomon accused of organizing former members.

**Conclusions:**

*   The capture of Orozco poses a security risk to AMLASH-1 and AMTRUNK-10.
*   AMLASH-1 is tasked with gathering information on various topics, including Cuban officials, security measures, and political developments.
*   Several Cuban officials are identified as potentially approachable for recruitment or compromise.
*   Soviet influence in Cuba is causing resentment among Cuban officials.
