This document is a memorandum from Howard J. Osborn, Director of Security, to the Deputy Director for Support (L. K. White) regarding proposed key assignments within the Office of Security in the summer of 1965.

**Key People:**

*   **Howard J. Osborn:** Director of Security
*   **L. K. White:** Deputy Director for Support
*   **James P. O'Connell, Jr.:** GS-15, to be replaced as Chief, Far East Regional Security Staff and reassigned as Chief, Investigations Division.
*   **Arthur C. Sheridan:** GS-15, to replace James P. O'Connell, Jr. as Chief, Far East Regional Security Staff.
*   **James W. McCord, Jr.:** GS-15, to replace Arthur C. Sheridan as Chief, Technical Division.
*   **ELHardt:** Mentioned in the distribution list.

**Organizations:**

*   **Office of Security (OS):** The organization where the personnel changes are occurring.
*   **Technical Division:** A division within the Office of Security.
*   **Far East Regional Security Staff:** A regional branch of the Office of Security, located in Okinawa (3-17 Okinawa).
*   **Investigations Division:** A division within the Office of Security.
*   **Air War College:** Where James W. McCord, Jr. is attending.

**Events:**

*   **Personnel Reassignments (Summer 1965):** The central event is the planned reassignment of key personnel within the Office of Security.

**Conclusions:**

The memorandum proposes and approves the reassignment of key personnel within the Office of Security, including the replacement of James P. O'Connell, Jr. in Okinawa, the reassignment of James W. McCord, Jr., and the planned promotion of James P. O'Connell, Jr. to GS-16.
