This document is a CIA report from August 11, 1964, concerning Guillermo ARASTAGUIA, a Cuban intelligence officer.

**Key People:**

*   **Guillermo ARASTAGUIA:** Also known as "Rene," chief of the Department of Technical Operational Support (MI) in the Direccion General de Inteligencia (DGI). Previously secretary to Ramiro VALDES in the Departamento de Seguridad del Estado (DSE). Described as a follower of Anibal ESCALANTE.
*   **Ramiro VALDES:** Former superior of ARASTAGUIA in the DSE.
*   **Anibal ESCALANTE:** ARASTAGUIA was a follower of him.
*   **Raul CASTRO:** ARRASTIA was reported to have the confidence of Raul Castro.

**Organizations:**

*   **CIA:** Central Intelligence Agency (United States).
*   **DGI:** Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - Cuba).
*   **DSE:** Departamento de Seguridad del Estado (Department of State Security - Cuba).
*   **MINFAR:** Cuban Ministry of the Armed Forces.
*   **G-2:** Intelligence Department of the Cuban Ministry of the Armed Forces (MINFAR).

**Events:**

*   **Youth Festival in Helsinki:** ARASTAGUIA attended as a representative of the DGI.

**Nations:**

*   **Cuba:** Country of origin and employment of ARASTAGUIA.
*   **United States:** Country of origin of the CIA.
*   **Moscow:** ARASTAGUIA traveled to Moscow three times.
*   **Ecuador:** An official Ecuadorean source provided a list of Cuban Communists.
*   **Helsinki:** Location of the Youth Festival.

**Conclusions:**

*   The CIA is gathering information on Cuban intelligence officers.
*   ARASTAGUIA is a person of interest to the CIA due to his position in the DGI and his past associations.
*   There is some uncertainty in the spelling of ARASTAGUIA's name (ARRASTIA, ARRATIA) in earlier reports.
