This document is a memorandum dated January 29, 1964, from M. D. Stevens regarding the Lee Harvey Oswald case. It discusses the involvement of several individuals in Oswald's return to the United States from the Soviet Union in 1962.

**People:**

*   **Lee Harvey Oswald:** Subject of the case, defected to the Soviet Union and later returned to the United States.
*   **Abram Chayes:** Legal Officer of the State Department, allegedly involved in Oswald's return.
*   **Llewellyn Thompson:** U.S. Ambassador to Russia, allegedly involved in Oswald's return.
*   **Samuel Wise (Samuel Griffin Wise Jr.):** Counsel of the American Embassy in Moscow, allegedly involved in Oswald's return. Also, a former contract employee on AEACTIVE and applicant for CIA employment.
*   **Antonia (Toni) Leigh Chayes, nee: Handler:** Wife of Abram Chayes.
*   **J. Foster Collins:** In the office of the Chief of the Covert Action Staff.
*   **Archibald Roosevelt, Jr.:** Contact for Abram Chayes.
*   **Francis E. Walter:** Representative, Chairman of the House Committee on Un-American Activities.
*   **Chester Bowles:** Former Governor of Connecticut.
*   **William Orville Munsell:** Friend of Samuel Wise, security disapproved for CIA employment.

**Organizations:**

*   **State Department:** Abram Chayes and Samuel Wise were employees.
*   **CIA (Central Intelligence Agency):** Samuel Wise was an applicant and William Orville Munsell was disapproved for employment.
*   **FBI (Federal Bureau of Investigation):** Mentioned in connection to State Department regulations on passports.
*   **House Committee on Un-American Activities:** Chaired by Representative Francis E. Walter.
*   **American Embassy in Moscow:** Samuel Wise was Counsel.

**Events:**

*   **Oswald's Defection and Return:** Lee Harvey Oswald defected to the Soviet Union and later returned to the United States in June 1962.
*   **Passport Regulation Controversy:** New State Department regulations on passports were criticized for potentially allowing "Reds" access to confidential files.

**Conclusions:**

*   The memorandum suggests that Abram Chayes, Llewellyn Thompson, and Samuel Wise were involved in the process of allowing Lee Harvey Oswald to return to the United States from the Soviet Union.
*   Samuel Wise had connections to individuals and projects of interest to the CIA.
*   Samuel Wise had questionable associates and attended a high school accused of Communist influence.
