This memorandum, dated August 31, 1962, from Vernon R. Sando, Chief of the Minneapolis Office, to the Chief of the Contact Division, concerns a Cuban refugee group.

**Summary:**

The memo discusses a small group of Cubans who are traveling between the United States and Cuba to establish reception groups, deliver supplies, and extract Cubans wishing to leave. George Hauer of Cleveland, Ohio, provided the names of the group's leaders and is acting as an intermediary. The group is seeking assistance in the form of supplies. Hauer understands that any assistance would require Agency control. Sando requests expedited background checks on the individuals and an expression of interest from the Contact Division. He believes Hauer, who is now recruiting executive personnel for Ernst & Ernst, could be a valuable asset to the Agency.

**People:**

*   Vernon R. Sando (Chief, Minneapolis Office)
*   George Hauer (Cleveland, Ohio)
*   Gene Rittenburg
*   Ernesto Rodrigues y Moreno
*   Laureano Batista
*   Augustin Batista (Havana banker)
*   Victor Paneque

**Organizations:**

*   CIA (Agency)
*   Ernst & Ernst

**Nations:**

*   United States
*   Cuba

**Events:**

*   Cuban Revolution (implied)
*   Cuban refugee crisis (implied)

**Conclusions:**

The CIA is considering providing support to a Cuban refugee group operating between the US and Cuba, with George Hauer acting as an intermediary. The Agency is interested in potentially controlling the group's activities in exchange for providing supplies.
