This document is a classified message from the Mexico City station of an intelligence agency (likely the CIA, given the context of the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act) to the Director, dated August 1961. It details the activities of LITAMIL-5, who traveled to Havana, Cuba, to contact LIOOZE-1 and carry out instructions given by LITAMIL-1.

**Key People and Groups:**

*   **LITAMIL-5:** An agent who traveled to Havana to contact LIOOZE-1 and Enrique Collazo.
*   **LIOOZE-1:** A friend of LITAMIL-5 in Havana.
*   **LITAMIL-1:** Recruited LITAMIL-5 and is the only one aware of his attempt to contact LIOOZE-1.
*   **Enrique Collazo:** Lives in Havana, Calle "A" 509 Vedado. LITAMIL-5 was instructed to contact him.
*   **Diet Laegenfelder:** A German druggist who went to Havana in July per LITAMIL-5's instructions.
*   **"Jesus Badal" (Pseudo):** Leader of a sabotage unit in contact with KUBARK PBPRIME by radio.
*   **TAMAYO FNU ("INDIO AZUL"):** In radio contact in CARA.
*   **KUBARK PBPRIME:** An entity in radio contact with Badal's sabotage unit.

**Organizations:**

*   **Mexicana:** Airline used by LITAMIL-5.
*   **RADIO CUBA LIBRE:** A clandestine radio station to be operated from Mexico.

**Events:**

*   LITAMIL-5 traveled to Havana to contact LIOOZE-1 and Enrique Collazo.
*   LITAMIL-5 carried instructions, a "code book," and half of a medical flysheet as "bona fides."
*   LITAMIL-5 was to connect Collazo with "Jesus Badal," the leader of a sabotage unit.
*   A radio transmitter was received in Mexico as a "gift" to LITAMIL-1.
*   "RADIO CUBA LIBRE" is planned to be operational within two weeks, using LITAMIL-5's "voice."

**Conclusions:**

*   The message details an operation to establish clandestine radio communication between Mexico and a sabotage unit in Cuba.
*   The operation involves multiple agents and intermediaries.
*   Secrecy is paramount to avoid damaging relations within the LITAMIL complex in Mexico.
