This document summarizes an investigation into Balmes Hidalgo, Jr., a covert employee of an unnamed Agency (likely the CIA), who is in the United States for training and being considered for a sensitive assignment by Staff C/ICB. The Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) wants to use Hidalgo as an informant regarding Communist activities, but the Agency is concerned that public testimony would jeopardize his future covert work.

**People:**

*   **Balmes Hidalgo, Jr.:** Subject of the investigation, covert employee of the Agency.
*   **Chester R. Hoatson:** Special Agent.
*   **Robert Dahlgren:** Acting Chief, WH/FT.
*   **John Bonnet:** Chief, WH/Panama.
*   **Peter Howell:** Covert Training Officer, OTE.
*   **Paul Birke:** Staff C/ICB.
*   **Pennington:** Alien Affairs Staff, SO.
*   **William A. Hogan:** Special Assistant to the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization.
*   **James Strouse:** Alien Affairs Staff/SC.
*   **Charles W. Fane:** Author of the memo.

**Organizations:**

*   **Agency:** Unnamed intelligence agency (likely CIA).
*   **SSD:** Deputy Chief, SSD
*   **Staff C/ICB:** A division within the Agency involved in sensitive projects.
*   **WH/FT:** A division within the Agency.
*   **WH/Panama:** A division within the Agency.
*   **OTE:** Covert Training Officer.
*   **INS:** Immigration and Naturalization Service.

**Events:**

*   Hidalgo is in the United States for four weeks of training, starting July 6, 1954.
*   INS requests to use Hidalgo as an informant on Communist activities.
*   The Agency investigates the implications of allowing Hidalgo to testify publicly.
*   Hidalgo's father revealed his son's employment with the Agency to an INS inspector, causing a security concern.

**Nations:**

*   United States
*   Panama (Balboa Canal Zone)

**Conclusions:**

*   The Agency is hesitant to allow Hidalgo to testify publicly due to the sensitivity of his potential assignment with Staff C/ICB and his future as a covert employee.
*   The Agency proposes to cooperate with INS by submitting specific questions to Hidalgo through the Agency and forwarding his answers to INS.
*   The Agency will investigate the security breach caused by Hidalgo's father.
*   Any action regarding the INS request will be coordinated with WH and Staff C.