This document is a cable disseminated by the CIA on April 18, 1968, regarding Eric Starvo Galt, a suspect in the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr. Galt is also known under the aliases Harvey Lowmyer and John Willard. The cable provides a physical description of Galt, noting his height, weight, hair and eye color, complexion, and a noticeably protruding left ear. He is described as a "lone wolf" who allegedly attended dance instruction school and completed a bartending course. He is considered armed and extremely dangerous.

The cable requests that recipients in various locations (including Asuncion, Bangkok, Barcelona, Beirut, Berlin, Bern, Bogota, Brasilia, Brussels, Buenos Aires, Caracas, Copenhagen, Frankfurt, Geneva, Georgetown, Guatemala City, Guayaquil, The Hague, Hamburg, Helsinki, Hong Kong, Kingston, La Paz, Lima, London, Madrid, Managua, Montevideo, New Delhi, Lisbon, Manila, Munich, Oslo, Panama City, Paris, Port Au Prince, Port of Spain, Porto Alegre, Quito, Recife, Rawalpindi, Rio de Janeiro, Rome, San Jose, Santo Domingo, San Salvador, Santiago, Santiago de los Caballeros, Sao Paulo, Stockholm, Tegucigalpa, Tokyo, Vienna, and Zurich) make every effort to determine if Galt is or has been in their area. Any information should be passed to liaison contacts and other likely sources. LNERGO requests that any information reported be evaluated as to reliability and that as much detail as possible be provided. Positive replies should be cabled with priority to HQS and passed to the Legal Attaché if any in your country.

People:

*   Richard Oberf
*   Eric Starvo Galt (alias Harvey Lowmyer, alias John Willard)
*   Martin Luther King, Jr.
*   Mr. Hunt
*   Mr. Smyth
*   Mr. Smith

Organizations:

*   CIA
*   LNERGO

Locations:

*   Asuncion
*   Bangkok
*   Barcelona
*   Beirut
*   Berlin
*   Bern
*   Bogota
*   Brasilia
*   Brussels
*   Buenos Aires
*   Caracas
*   Copenhagen
*   Frankfurt
*   Geneva
*   Georgetown
*   Guatemala City
*   Guayaquil
*   The Hague
*   Hamburg
*   Helsinki
*   Hong Kong
*   Kingston
*   La Paz
*   Lima
*   Lisbon
*   London
*   Madrid
*   Managua
*   Manila
*   Montevideo
*   Munich
*   New Delhi
*   Oslo
*   Panama City
*   Paris
*   Port Au Prince
*   Port of Spain
*   Porto Alegre
*   Quito
*   Rawalpindi
*   Recife
*   Rio de Janeiro
*   Rome
*   San Jose
*   San Salvador
*   Santiago
*   Santo Domingo
*   Santiago de los Caballeros
*   Sao Paulo
*   Stockholm
*   Tegucigalpa
*   Tokyo
*   Vienna
*   Zurich

Events:

*   Assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr.

Conclusions:

*   Eric Starvo Galt is a suspect in the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr.
*   Galt's current whereabouts are unknown.
*   The CIA is seeking information on Galt's whereabouts and activities from its stations worldwide.
