This document is a classified message from JA/WAVE to the Director, dated December 13, 1963, concerning requests for information on several individuals in Cuba. The message is TYPIC AMCOG.

**People Mentioned:**

*   **Dr. Fidencio (Sanchez) Escoto:** Veterinarian, born around 1915 in Cuba, married to Lolina Febles, resides in Habana.
*   **Lolina Febles:** Wife of Dr. Fidencio Escoto.
*   **Dr. Oscar (Pina) Hernandez:** Court Judge, born around 1913 in Cuba, married to Petite Esnard, resides in Habana.
*   **Petite Esnard:** Wife of Dr. Oscar Hernandez.
*   **Dr. Carlos (Rubi):** Medical doctor, born in 1924 in Habana, graduated from the University of Habana, married to Alicia Cusco, resides in Marianao.
*   **Alicia Cusco:** Former teacher at Sacred Heart, wife of Dr. Carlos Rubi.
*   **Rayon Ivan (Ledo) Garvallo:** 38 years old, from Habana, single, former manager of Mueblicentro, resides with his parents in Marianao.
*   **Jose Ramon (Ledo) Gonzalez:** Father of Rayon Ivan Garvallo.
*   **Ada Hilda Garvallo:** Mother of Rayon Ivan Garvallo.
*   **Dr. Rene (Zamora) Carbonell:** Lawyer, born around 1920 in Cuba, married, resides in Habana.
*   **Manuel (Campanioni) Souza:** Perfume manufacturer, born in Habana (date unknown), formerly employed at various hotels and nightclubs, married to Alicia, daughter living in Miami Beach, resides in Habana.
*   **Alicia:** Wife of Manuel Souza.
*   **Secundino (Fernandez) Gonzalez:** Former police officer, fired in 1932, farm owner, married to Teresa (Hevia) Cachero, resides in Reparto Palatino, Habana.
*   **Teresa (Hevia) Cachero:** Wife of Secundino Gonzalez.
*   **Bernardo (Fernandez) Hevia:** Son of Secundino Gonzalez and Teresa Hevia, born in 1940 in Habana.
*   **Capt Eduardo (Rodriguez) Campbell:** General Staff Officer in the Cuban Army, born around 1915, Negro, married with four children, former carpentry ship owner who joined Fidel Castro in Sierra Maestre, resides in Pan American Development.
*   **Fidel Castro:** Leader of the Cuban Revolution.
*   **Almeida:** Commander in Sierra Maestre.
*   **Segundo (Ferrero) Cuevas:** Former Lieutenant, born in Cuba (date not given), formerly married to Ana Ledea, remarried in January 1963, resides in Miramar, Marianao, Habana.
*   **Ana Ledea:** Former wife of Segundo Cuevas.
*   **Raul Castro:** Mentioned in connection to Segundo Cuevas.

**Organizations:**

*   **Cuban Army:** Eduardo Rodriguez Campbell is a General Staff Officer.
*   **University of Habana:** Carlos Rubi is a graduate.
*   **Sacred Heart:** Alicia Cusco was a teacher.

**Events:**

*   **Cuban Revolution:** Eduardo Rodriguez Campbell joined Fidel Castro in Sierra Maestre.

**Nations:**

*   **Cuba:** The primary location of the individuals mentioned.
*   **United States:** Daughter of Manuel Souza lives in Miami Beach.

**Conclusions:**

The message requests POAS (Proof of Activity Statements) and traces on the listed individuals. Some individuals have "no identifiable traces," while others have connections to the Cuban government, the Cuban Revolution, or are mentioned in previous reports. The information is being gathered for intelligence purposes.
