This document is a contact report dated 15 June 1964, detailing a recontact with Oliverio Antonio TOMEU Vasallo.

**People:**

*   **Oliverio Antonio TOMEU Vasallo:** Subject of the report, recontacted on 8 June 1964.
*   **Carlos and Ana Gloria de VARONA:** Individuals TOMEU provided additional detail on. Ana Gloria de VARONA housed TOMEU while he was in hiding. Carlos de VARONA was part of TOMEU's infiltration team.
*   **Owiel GONZALEZ:** Identified as a possible lead to Jose LLANUSA Gobel. Was previously with MEFOTO Gutierrez in the Second Front of Escambray.
*   **"COCO":** Described as the secretary to Jose LLANUSA Gobel.
*   **Jose LLANUSA Gobel:** Individual of interest.
*   **Caridad:** TOMEU's wife.
*   **Osiel CORALES:** Former Chief of the Havana Fire Department, identified as another possible lead who would know LLANUSA.
*   **MEFOTO Gutierrez:** Was with Owiel Gonzalez in the Second Front of Escambray.
*   **Monsignor Eduardo BOZA Masvidal:** Present in a photograph with TOMEU and others.
*   **Manuel VILLANANAN:** Present in a photograph with TOMEU and others.
*   **Wils DIAZ:** Present in a photograph with TOMEU and others. Believed to be in the US.
*   **Publio RUIZ:** Present in a photograph with TOMEU and others. In the US.
*   **Jorge Del VALLE:** Present in a photograph with TOMEU and others. Possibly in Mexico.
*   **Manuel ARTIME:** Asked TOMEU to take a job as an instructor.
*   **Manolo RAY Rivero:** Created the JURE organization.
*   **John Hugh Crimmins:** Coordinator of Cuban Affairs, ARA, Department of State.
*   **Donald WEBSTER:** TOMEU's supervisor at the Defense Language Institute.

**Organizations:**

*   **Cuban Government:** TOMEU was in hiding to escape capture by the Cuban Government.
*   **Second Front of Escambray:** Owiel GONZALEZ was previously with MENOTO Gutierrez in this organization.
*   **Brazilian Embassy (possibly Argentine Embassy):** Owiel GONZALEZ was under asylum here.
*   **68 Army:** TOMEU is a career military officer in the 68 Army.
*   **Defense Language Institute, Anacostia Naval Annex:** Where TOMEU works and Mrs. Webster is his supervisor.
*   **JURE (JRC):** An organization created by Manolo RAY Rivero.

**Nations:**

*   **Cuba:** TOMEU wishes to help free Cuba.
*   **United States:** Possible location of Owiel GONZALEZ and Publio RUIZ.
*   **Puerto Rico:** Possible location of Owiel GONZALEZ.
*   **Spain:** TOMEU's sister asked if he and his family would want to live with her in Spain.
*   **Mexico:** TOMEU's sister asked if he and his family would want to live with her in Mexico. Possible location of Jorge Del VALLE.

**Events:**

*   **TOMEU's infiltration:** TOMEU was in hiding after an infiltration.

**Conclusions:**

*   TOMEU provided additional details on Carlos and Ana Gloria de VARONA and identified Owiel GONZALEZ and "COCO" as possible leads to Jose LLANUSA Gobel.
*   TOMEU is hesitant to follow any individual leader again, preferring to trust ideals or an organization.
*   TOMEU is favorably inclined towards the ideals and goals of the JURE.
*   Other "Brigade students" at the Defense Language Institute think highly of TOMEU.
