This document is a memorandum summarizing the S/W (secret writing) training and issuance of materials to agent AMLASH/1 in Paris, France, between August 17-22, 1962. The training was conducted by Richard M. Fallucci (TPE C/O), with Wallace A. Growery (Madrid Station C/O) participating in the final briefing.

**People:**

*   **AMLASH/1:** The agent receiving the S/W training.
*   **Richard M. Fallucci:** The trainer (TPE C/O).
*   **Wallace A. Growery:** Madrid Station C/O, participated in the final briefing.
*   **"Ramon":** Signature to be used by AMLASH/1 in letters.
*   **Senorita Maria Dolores Gomez:** Accommodation address in Madrid.
*   **Mr. Humphrey R. Boncavil:** Accommodation address in New York City.

**Organizations:**

*   **CIA (KUBARK):** The agency AMLASH/1 will be communicating with.
*   **Madrid Station:** CIA station in Madrid.
*   **TSD:** Technical Services Division (provided writing paper).

**Places:**

*   **Paris, France:** Location of the training.
*   **Copenhagen:** Location where S/W was first discussed with AMLASH/1.
*   **Madrid, Spain:** Location of a regular contact accommodation address.
*   **New York City:** Location of a rapid/emergency contact accommodation address.
*   **PBRUMEN:** Location where AMLASH/1 is returning to, and needs to provide a secure accommodation address from.

**Events:**

*   **S/W Training:** Instruction of AMLASH/1 in secret writing techniques.

**Conclusions:**

*   AMLASH/1 received training in S/W techniques, including carbon writing and liquid developer systems.
*   AMLASH/1 was provided with necessary materials for S/W communication.
*   AMLASH/1 needs to provide a secure accommodation address in PBRUMEN.
*   AMLASH/1 is considered security conscious and likely to follow instructions properly.
*   Letters to the agent will contain S/W.
*   Agent letters to be signed "Ramon".
*   Agent is to locate and report soonest by S/W three Dead Drops.
*   Agent is under control if any word, mark, phrase, etc., after the Spanish word "FIN" at the end of the S/W message.
