This document collection pertains to Gordon Barton McLendon, born in Paris, Texas on June 8, 1921, a U.S. citizen residing in Dallas, Texas. McLendon was the owner of a number of radio stations and president of numerous companies in radio, TV, and motion picture theatre fields, and reputedly a multi-millionaire. He served as an ONI officer during World War II.

Key Individuals and Organizations:

*   **Gordon Barton McLendon:** Subject of the file, owner of McLendon Broadcast System, and various other companies.
*   **John K. McLean:** Former staff officer (DDI/OCI), now in finance, friend of McLendon since Yale. Vice-President and Treasurer of International Ventures, Inc., and Vice-President of Riviere & Berens Securities Corp.
*   **Wallace Lampshire:** Staff officer who introduced John McLean to the undersigned.
*   **Lincoln Epworth:** In New York City, working with John McLean.
*   **Ikvo Kasai:** President of Nichimen Co. of Tokyo.
*   **Peter Beers:** Case Officer, DO/00.
*   **William A. Foyer:** Branch Chief.
*   **Robert K. Cara:** Security Officer, CIA.
*   **Howell d. Christy:** Case Officer.
*   **James Gl. Kole:** Branch Chief.
*   **John F. Brewer**
*   **James A. Noe:** Former Governor of Louisiana, father of McLendon's wife.
*   **Sade & Co.:** Stock broker where John McLean worked.
*   **International Ventures, Inc.:** Company where John McLean is Vice-President and Treasurer.
*   **Riviere & Berens Securities Corp.:** Stockbrokers where John McLean is Vice-President.
*   **Nichimen Co.:** Company of Tokyo, seeking to export to the States.
*   **McLendon Corporation:** Company of Dallas, Texas, of which Gordon McLendon is President.
*   **Liberty Broadcasting System:** Company of which Gordon McLendon is President.
*   **CIA (Central Intelligence Agency):** Involved in assessing McLendon as a potential collaborator.
*   **ONI (Office of Naval Intelligence):** McLendon was an officer during WWII.
*   **USSR (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics):** Mentioned in connection with McLendon's night club in Stockholm.

Key Events and Operations:

*   **WUENTREE:** Project for which McLendon was being assessed.
*   **DTMIKADO:** Special Project.
*   McLendon expressed fears about the future of the dollar and moved millions to Europe.
*   McLendon wondered if his foreign operations, including a night club in Stockholm frequented by people from various countries including the USSR, might be of interest to the Government (CIA).
*   Request for a covert security clearance for McLendon was denied by the Office of Security on July 29, 1952.

Conclusions:

*   McLendon was considered a "potential witting collaborator" by the CIA.
*   The CIA was interested in McLendon's potential to provide information or assistance due to his business interests and international connections.
*   A request for a covert security clearance for McLendon was denied.
*   The file was reviewed in 1975 and categorized as "potential witting collaborator."
