This document is a Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) information report, dated August 27, 1964, concerning Julian NOVAS Fernandez, identified as a Cuban Intelligence Officer. The report is based on information from a former Cuban Intelligence Service (IS) officer who defected in April 1964.

**Key People:**

*   **Julian NOVAS Fernandez:** Cuban Intelligence Officer, identified at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City in March 1964. Later assigned to the Cuban Consulate in Kingston, Jamaica, as Commercial Attache. Born September 2, 1938, in Habana, Cuba.
*   **Amarilis Marta VALDES Hijuelos:** Wife of Julian NOVAS Fernandez, born May 19, 1937, in Jiquani, Oriente, Cuba.
*   **Gerardo SANCHEZ Robert:** Possibly succeeded by Julian NOVAS Fernandez as the Cuban Intelligence Service chief in Jamaica.

**Organizations:**

*   **Central Intelligence Agency (CIA):** Author of the report.
*   **Cuban Intelligence Service (IS):** Julian NOVAS Fernandez's employer.

**Nations:**

*   **Cuba:** Country of origin and affiliation of Julian NOVAS Fernandez.
*   **United States:** Country of the CIA, the report's author.
*   **Mexico:** Location of the Cuban Embassy where NOVAS was seen.
*   **Jamaica:** Location of the Cuban Consulate where NOVAS was assigned.

**Events:**

*   **March 1964:** NOVAS seen at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City. NOVAS arrives in Kingston, Jamaica, on March 18, 1964.
*   **April 1964:** Defection of the Cuban IS officer who provided the information. Amarilis Marta VALDES Hijuelos arrives in Kingston on April 22, 1964.

**Conclusions:**

*   Julian NOVAS Fernandez was identified as a Cuban Intelligence Officer.
*   He was likely assigned to the Cuban Consulate in Kingston, Jamaica, as a Commercial Attache, rather than being stationed at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City.
*   There is speculation that NOVAS may be the new Cuban Intelligence Service chief in Jamaica.