This document is a memorandum detailing a meeting held on October 13, 1960, to address the potential security risk posed by Anna Tarasoff's father, Anthony Adamoviez, planning a trip to the Russian Embassy to obtain a visa to visit relatives in the U.S.S.R.

**People:**

*   **Anna Tarasoff:** CIA employee.
*   **Anthony Adamoviez:** Anna Tarasoff's father, planning a trip to the Russian Embassy.
*   **Boris D. Tarasoff:** Anna Tarasoff's husband, an Agency employee in Mexico.
*   **Mariya Kalnak:** Anna Tarasoff's aunt, living in the U.S.S.R.
*   **Ivanu Yulyanovichu Adamovichu:** Anna Tarasoff's uncle, living in the U.S.S.R.
*   **Sherry Comella:** Anna Tarasoff's sister.
*   **Robert J. Leonard:** Author of the memorandum, representative of the Office of Security.
*   **Birch O'Neal:** CI Staff.
*   **T.K. Chalmers:** CI/Projects, Subject's supervisor.
*   **Henry C. Woodward:** CCG/DC.
*   **Thornton W. Means:** OCG/OCB.
*   **M.K. Holbik:** RO/PSD

**Organizations:**

*   **CIA (Central Intelligence Agency):** Anna Tarasoff and her husband's employer.
*   **Office of Security:** CIA department represented by Robert J. Leonard.
*   **Russian Embassy:** Where Anthony Adamoviez planned to apply for a visa.
*   **American Steel and Wire Company:** Anthony Adamoviez's former employer.
*   **Department of State:** Used as a cover for Boris Tarasoff's employment.
*   **U.S. Army:** Providing cover for Anna Tarasoff.
*   **Sears Roebuck Department Store:** Knows Anna Tarasoff as CIA.

**Nations:**

*   **United States:** Where Anna Tarasoff and her family reside.
*   **U.S.S.R. (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics):** Where Anthony Adamoviez planned to visit.
*   **Mexico:** Where Boris Tarasoff is stationed.

**Events:**

*   **Anthony Adamoviez's planned trip to the Russian Embassy:** The central concern of the memorandum.
*   **Meeting on October 13, 1960:** To discuss the security implications of Adamoviez's trip.
*   **Adamoviez's visit to the Russian Embassy:** Where he was asked about his family.

**Conclusions:**

*   Anthony Adamoviez should not be briefed on his daughter's CIA employment.
*   A U.S. Army cover should be provided for Anna Tarasoff.
*   Boris Tarasoff's State Department cover should be reinforced.
*   Credit checks on Anna and Boris Tarasoff revealed no record of CIA employment.
*   Since Anna Tarasoff was listed by her father in her maiden name, no further difficulty is expected.
*   The Office of Security is to be kept advised of further developments in this case by T. K. Chalmers, Subject's supervisor.
