This document is a classified message dated November 25, 1963, from the Director to Sydney and Canberra, concerning the assassination of President John F. Kennedy.

**Key People and Organizations:**

*   **William Johnson:** Mentioned in the header.
*   **Director:** Sender of the message.
*   **C/CI:** Addressee of the message.
*   **DCI, D/DCI, DOP, ADDP, C/FE 6, VR:** Information recipients.
*   **ALDERA:** Mentioned in reference to a Canberra cable.
*   **KUBARK:** Assigned responsibility for activity related to a Polish driver.
*   **Asst. ALUSNA:** Received a telephone call from a person claiming to be a Polish driver.
*   **Carl:** Involved in plans for contact with a Polish driver.
*   **J Roman:** Chief FE, one of the coordinating officers.

**Events and Nations:**

*   **Assassination of President John F. Kennedy:** The central subject of the message.
*   **Soviet Government:** Possible connection to the assassination is being investigated.
*   **U.S.:** Location of the assassination and other incidents.
*   **Poland:** Origin of a driver who may have information.
*   **Canberra:** Location of ALDERA, sender of a cable related to the investigation.
*   **Sydney:** Recipient of the message.

**Religious Groups:**

*   No religious groups are mentioned in this document.

**Conclusions and Key Points:**

*   The message references a previous cable (ALDERA CANBERRA CABLE CED-015) that was downgraded to SECRET.
*   It discusses a telephone conversation detailing a possible connection between the Soviet government and the assassination.
*   The message mentions a telephone call received by Asst. ALUSNA from a person claiming to be a Polish driver, who provided information about possible Soviet involvement, including the supply of money to assassinate the President.
*   KUBARK is assigned responsibility for any contact with the Polish driver.
*   All aspects of the assassination are being investigated.
