**Summary:**

This document is a dispatch from the Chief of Station, JMWAVE, regarding the contact report for IDEN A (Alfred J. Moran), a wealthy New Orleans businessman used by JMWAVE. Moran was cleared by Headquarters in December 1962 and initially contacted by Eli A. SACHTSCHALE. He serves as the President of YOCOUGH, a JMWAVE cover company, and allows his own company to be used for funding. He also recommends other businessmen for JMWAVE use and provides oil companies for backstopping cover of JMWAVE operational vessels. He is also used by Headquarters for JBECHO activities.

**People:**

*   IDEN A (Alfred J. Moran): Wealthy New Orleans businessman, President of YOCOUGH, used by JMWAVE.
*   Eli A. SACHTSCHALE: JMWAVE contact who initially contacted IDEN A.
*   Rufus E. MANGROLL: Met IDEN A.
*   Colin R. HOWGRIND: Met IDEN A.
*   IDEN C (James Costello): Miami attorney participating in JMWAVE activities.
*   IDEN D (Glean E. Magnuson): Officer of YOCOUGH.
*   IDEN E (Robert T. Nieset): Officer of YOCOUGH.
*   Andrew K. Reuteman: Author of the dispatch.

**Organizations:**

*   JMWAVE: CIA station.
*   Headquarters: CIA Headquarters.
*   YOCOUGH: JMWAVE cover company.
*   YOAFT: Mentioned in relation to IDEN A's knowledge.
*   KUJUMP: New Orleans office that introduced SACHTSCHALE to IDEN A.

**Locations:**

*   New Orleans, Louisiana
*   Miami, Florida

**Events:**

*   IDEN A cleared by Headquarters for JMWAVE use (December 15, 1962).
*   Initial contact with IDEN A by Eli A. SACHTSCHALE (December 27, 1962).

**Conclusions:**

*   IDEN A is a valuable asset for JMWAVE, providing cover, funding, and recommendations.
*   The dispatch requests that a 201 number be assigned to IDEN A and made known to JMWAVE.
