This document, released under the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992, is a message from JMWAVE to the Director, concerning AMYUM/19 and CUERTLER.

**People:**

*   **AMYUM/19:** Told CUERTLER that CUANT UM/51 will be asked to contact all ANYU's in Cuba.
*   **CUERTLER:** Recipient of information from AMYUM/19.
*   **CUANT UM/51:** Will be asked to contact all ANYU's in Cuba.
*   **MARIA TERESA (SACRE) ABIRAFHED:** WAVE traces in reference document.
*   **CARLOS (CUPANCA) GARCIA:** WAVE traces in reference document.
*   **DR FRANCISCO (RENE DE LA MUERTA) AQUIAR:** Approximately 43 years old, born in Havana. Suspected head of ANYUM intel in Havana.
*   **(DE LA MUERTA):** Will act as cut out for DR MARIO ENRIQUE (YAPTIVEZ) DELGADO.
*   **DR MARIO ENRIQUE (YAPTIVEZ) DELGADO:** Born 28 in Santo Domingo, Las Villas Province. Works at Hospital de Dementes de Mazorra.

**Organizations:**

*   **CIA:** Central Intelligence Agency
*   **JMWAVE:** Originating location of the message.
*   **ANYUM:** Intel organization in Havana.

**Locations:**

*   **Cuba:** Location of ANYU's to be contacted.
*   **Havana:** Birthplace of DR FRANCISCO (RENE DE LA MUERTA) AQUIAR.
*   **Santo Domingo, Las Villas Province:** Birthplace of DR MARIO ENRIQUE (YAPTIVEZ) DELGADO.
*   **Hospital de Dementes de Mazorra:** Workplace of DR MARIO ENRIQUE (YAPTIVEZ) DELGADO.

**Events:**

*   **Operation 27:** DR MARIO ENRIQUE (YAPTIVEZ) DELGADO suggested to be used as cutout.

**Conclusions:**

The message relays information about potential contacts and cutouts within Cuba, possibly related to intelligence operations. It identifies individuals with WAVE traces and suggests the use of DR FRANCISCO (RENE DE LA MUERTA) AQUIAR and DR MARIO ENRIQUE (YAPTIVEZ) DELGADO as cutouts.
