This document is a secret cable from the Tokyo station of an unnamed organization (likely the CIA) to its headquarters, regarding a news story about Lee Harvey Oswald and the CIA in Japan.

**People:**

*   **Lee Harvey Oswald:** The subject of the news story, alleged to have been recruited by the CIA while stationed in Japan with the Marines in the 1950s.
*   **President John F. Kennedy:** Referenced in relation to the declassification of assassination papers.
*   **UPI Reporter:** A reporter from United Press International (UPI) who is about to file a story on Oswald's alleged CIA recruitment.
*   **Retired Marine Officer:** Claimed to be Lee Harvey Oswald's commander in Japan, who was interviewed by the UPI reporter.
*   **Embassy Press Officer:** Advised by COS about the UPI reporter's story.
*   **COS:** Suggested passing the number of the historical office at headquarters to the reporter.

**Organizations:**

*   **CIA:** Allegedly recruited Lee Harvey Oswald in Japan.
*   **UPI (United Press International):** News organization about to publish a story on Oswald.
*   **U.S. Marine Corps:** Oswald was stationed with the Marines in Japan.
*   **National Archives:** Possibly responsible for JFK assassination inquiry declassification.

**Events:**

*   **John F. Kennedy Assassination:** Referenced in relation to the declassification of related papers.
*   **Oswald's time in Japan:** Allegedly recruited by the CIA while stationed with the Marines in the 1950s.

**Nations:**

*   **Japan:** Location of the news story and Oswald's alleged recruitment.
*   **United States:** Home country of Oswald, the CIA, and the Marine Corps.

**Conclusions:**

*   The Tokyo station is seeking the name and phone number of the project office responsible for declassification of Kennedy assassination papers.
*   The station is trying to manage potential negative publicity by providing the UPI reporter with information from the historical office, hoping to downplay the story.
*   The station believes that much of the information about Oswald's personal history has already been declassified.
