This document, released under the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Act of 1992, details the planned return of a group of individuals (AAC-1130 through AAC-1148) to the U.S. in late 1964.

**People:**

*   **Santiago ARGUELLES Izquierdo (AAC-1130)**
*   **Angel Manuel BENITEZ Benitez (AAC-1131)**
*   **Alicio CALAS Roque (AAC-1132)**
*   **Alfredo FERNANDEZ Martinez (AAC-1133)**
*   **Conrado FERNANDEZ Morales (AAC-1134)**
*   **Felix FUENTES Games (AAC-1135)**
*   **Orlando GARCIA Duarte (AAC-1136)**
*   **Jose Angel GONZALEZ Castro (AAC-1137)**
*   **Guillermo GONZALEZ Lazo (AAC-1138)**
*   **Jose Severino HERNANDEZ Martinez (AAC-1139)**
*   **Pedro LOPEZ Cristo (AAC-1140)**
*   **Raimundo MARTINEZ Gonzalez (AAC-1141)**
*   **Ricardo Anibal MORALES Navarrete (AAC-1142)**
*   **Alberto PEREZ Martinez (AAC-1143)**
*   **Manuel A. RIVERO Colona (AAC-1144)**
*   **Jorge Delio RODRIGUEZ Triana (AAC-1145)**
*   **Mario Andres ROMERO Arias (AAC-1146)**
*   **Jorge Luis SILVA Del Monte (AAC-1147)**
*   **Juan Cornelio TAMAYO Cordovi (AAC-1148)**
*   **Bob Gambino:** SOD/SO
*   **Jack Scanlan:** SOD/SO
*   **Arthur Garza**
*   **William Robertson**
*   **Dr. James Fearon, M.D.**
*   **James Fitchett:** Under Air Force cover
*   **Lawrence Fleishmann:** Deputy Commissioner of Customs
*   **Frank Braden:** I&NS
*   **W.M. Knott:** OS/AAS

**Organizations:**

*   **SOD/SO**
*   **Agency**
*   **Air Force**
*   **Customs**
*   **I&NS (Immigration and Naturalization Service)**
*   **OS/AAS**

**Events:**

*   The subjects (AAC-1130 through AAC-1148) were expected to return to the U.S. around November 30, 1964, but the arrival was later scheduled for the first week of December 1964.
*   All subjects except AAC-1142 and AAC-1143 were scheduled to arrive around December 5, 1964, at midnight on an Agency C-118 at Andrews Air Force Base, Maryland.
*   The plane was carrying loose cargo, including outboard motors, radio beacons, silence weapons, other weapons, commo gear, medical equipment, and parachute drop equipment.
*   James Fitchett was to transfer the subjects to a C-54 for further travel to Camp Pickett.
*   Customs and I&NS were notified of the arrival and were to meet James Fitchett at Base Operations.

**Nations:**

*   **U.S.**

**Conclusions:**

The document outlines the logistical arrangements for the return of a group of individuals and the coordination between various U.S. agencies (Agency, Air Force, Customs, I&NS) to facilitate their arrival and transfer to Camp Pickett. The presence of sensitive cargo on the plane suggests a covert operation.
