This document pertains to the development and provision of an improved sight for the 7.62 Belgium (FAL) rifle, specifically for use with underloaded ammunition.

**Key People:**

*   **Bushnell:** Addressee of the initial memo.
*   **D. J. Hogan:** Contact person for additional information.
*   **D. R. Dunn:** Contact person for additional information.
*   **Walter L. Erhardt:** Chief of TSD/Engineering Branch, author of the memorandum.

**Organizations:**

*   **CIA:** The document originates from within the CIA, specifically the Technical Services Division (TSD).
*   **TSD/Engineering Branch:** Responsible for the development of the sight.
*   **TSD/SDB:** Included in the distribution list.
*   **WH/SA/MOB/PM:** A CIA component, possibly related to weapons or paramilitary activities.

**Events:**

*   **Development of an improved sight for the 7.62 Belgium (FAL) rifle:** The main subject of the document.
*   **Request for a scope and mount:** This request was deemed unfeasible within the given timeframe.

**Conclusions:**

*   An improved open rear sight hood was developed to compensate for the trajectory of underloaded ammunition.
*   The sight hood is designed to snap onto the existing rear sight of the FAL rifle.
*   The user must zero the weapon on a firing range to determine the proper sight settings for different ammunition types.
*   A requested scope and mount were not feasible to develop in the available time.
*   The superiority of the sight over the standard unit has not been definitely established.
