This document consists of FBI and CIA records primarily from 1967 and 1968, concerning the Movimiento Insurreccional de Recuperacion Revolucionaria (MIRR), also known as Cuban Power, and its leader Orlando Bosch Avila.

**People:**

*   **Orlando Bosch Avila:** Leader of MIRR, an anti-Fidel Castro organization. Involved in revolutionary acts, some violent. Allegedly discusses press releases signed "Ernesto, General Delegate, Cuban Power."
*   **Felipe Rivero Dias:** ANC (Cuban National Association) leader.
*   **Louis Conception Bertot:** U.S. Citizen.
*   **Jose Antonio Mulet Y Gonzales:** Cuban Citizen.
*   **Jose Diaz Y Morejon:** Cuban Citizen.
*   **Marcos Rodriguez Y Ramos:** Cuban Citizen.
*   **Barbaro Dalan Y Garcia:** Cuban Citizen.
*   **Arthur Andrew Gerteit:** Possibly a witness in a case.
*   **Frank Angelo Fiorini**
*   **Bob Soures**

**Organizations:**

*   **MIRR (Movimiento Insurreccional de Recuperacion Revolucionaria):** Anti-Castro organization, also known as Cuban Power. Conducted raids against Cuba.
*   **Cuban Power (PC):** Also known as MIRR.
*   **ANC (Cuban National Association):**
*   **FBI (Federal Bureau of Investigation):**
*   **CIA (Central Intelligence Agency):**
*   **Tropical Radio Telegraph Company:**
*   **Associated Press:**
*   **JUCOBRA:**

**Nations:**

*   **Cuba:** Target of MIRR's anti-Castro activities.
*   **United States:** Location of MIRR's headquarters and activities.
*   **Panama:** Location of Tropical Radio Telegraph Company.
*   **Haiti:** Possible target of invasion by Cuban-Haitian emigre alliance.

**Events:**

*   **Bombing Activities:** MIRR is involved in bombing activities, including sabotage of Havana's Nico Oil Refinery and a feed factory.
*   **Bombing Plot:** A plot to bomb Cuba using an American pilot and a rented airplane.
*   **Rally in New York:** A rally held in New York on 10 February 1967 under the sponsorship of the Cuban National Association (ANC) and the MIRR-Comandos L Alliance.
*   **Explosion in Engine Room:** Explosion in engine room of British Freighter "Granwood"

**Conclusions:**

*   The FBI and CIA were actively investigating MIRR and Orlando Bosch Avila due to their anti-Castro activities and potential violations of U.S. laws, including the Arms Control Act, Conspiracy, and Neutrality Act.
*   MIRR was involved in planning and executing violent acts against Cuba, including bombings and raids.
*   There was concern about the potential impact of a trial involving Bosch and others on the CIA's operations and security.
*   The U.S. Customs in Miami was also conducting investigations related to these activities.
*   The documents suggest a possible alliance between Cuban and Haitian emigres with the goal of invading Haiti.
