This document details FBI investigations and information gathering related to a man named CHARLES, who expressed strong anti-Kennedy sentiments, and P.H. KOETRLOCK, who reported CHARLES's statements.

**People:**

*   **CHARLES:** Expressed the opinion that President Kennedy should be assassinated, calling him a communist and an obstacle to the nation's well-being. He spoke at a Daughters of the American Revolution (D.A.R.) meeting in Richmond. He is originally from Virginia and was unable to obtain a frame for an American flag burned in Cuba. He was previously contacted by the FBI at the request of the House Un-American Activities Committee. He was at one time connected with GARY DECKER.
*   **P.H. KOETRLOCK:** Contacted the FBI with information about CHARLES. He works for the U.S. Treasury. He is married, and his wife is allegedly in contact with communists at the Richmond News Leader. He is described as politically and morally on both sides of the fence.
*   **President John F. Kennedy:** Target of assassination remarks by CHARLES.
*   **General WALKER (possibly EDWIN WALKER):** Possibly a future speaker at a D.A.R. meeting.
*   **Mrs. KASTELOCK:** Attended the Political Forum sponsored by the Daughters of American Revolution at the Thomas Jefferson Hotel, Richmond.
*   **A.J. HODGES:** Attempted to interest KASTELOCK in selling insurance to members of the Klu Klux Klan.
*   **GARY DECKER:** Involved in the GARY POWERS Case.

**Organizations:**

*   **FBI:** Investigating CHARLES and KOETRLOCK.
*   **Daughters of the American Revolution (D.A.R.):** Hosted a meeting where CHARLES spoke.
*   **House Un-American Activities Committee (U.A.A.C.):** Requested the FBI to contact CHARLES.
*   **Klu Klux Klan (KKK):** Interested in a life insurance policy to cover funeral expenses.
*   **Richmond News Leader:** Allegedly has communist contacts through KOETRLOCK's wife.
*   **Thomas Jefferson Charity Foundation:** Involved in a matter where A. J. HODGES attempted to interest KASTELOCK in selling insurance to members of the Klu Klux Klan.
*   **Atlantic Life Insurance:** KOETRLOCK contacted a representative of Atlantic Life Insurance and has started what is known as the "Red Letter Movement".

**Nations:**

*   **Cuba:** Site of an American flag burning incident mentioned by CHARLES.
*   **United States:** CHARLES mentioned the Baltic Fleet and the United States Government was interested by CHARLES's comments regarding the Baltic Fleet.

**Events:**

*   **Luncheon at the Jefferson Hotel, Richmond:** Where KOETRLOCK met CHARLES.
*   **D.A.R. Meeting:** Where CHARLES spoke.
*   **Political Forum sponsored by the Daughters of American Revolution at the Thomas Jefferson Hotel, Richmond:** Mrs. KASTELOCK attended.

**Conclusions:**

*   The FBI is investigating CHARLES due to his expressed desire for President Kennedy's assassination.
*   KOETRLOCK is providing information to the FBI and is considered a potential source of value.
*   The Richmond office of the FBI is coordinating with Washington on this matter.
*   The FBI is interested in CHARLES's comments regarding the Baltic Fleet.
