This document is a routing slip and memo from the CIA, dated April 30, 1964, concerning an individual named "Subject of 201-720615" (identified as "Siegelimen" or "Biegelimen").

**Key People and Organizations:**

*   **CIA:** Central Intelligence Agency
*   **Bill Wainwright:** CIA employee
*   **S Bryant:** CIA employee
*   **A-1:** Individual with connections to the CIA, currently in Brazil.
*   **Charlie Davis:** Individual to be contacted by NE/5.
*   **Tegel:** Individual to be contacted by NE/5 after contact with Charlie Davis.
*   **Chief, WHD:** Sender of the memo.
*   **Chief of Station, Rio de Janeiro:** Recipient of the memo.
*   **Harry V. Withers:** Signatory of the memo.
*   **Mr. and Mrs. Henri Maslich:** Friends of the Subject in New York.
*   **Mr. and Mrs. John Duys:** Friends of the Subject in New York.
*   **Mr. and Mrs. H. Gilbert Smith:** Friends of the Subject in New Orleans.

**Events:**

*   The Subject was granted a 15-day tourist visa to the United States on April 29, 1964.
*   The Subject planned to leave for France around May 10th, stay for a month, and then go to the United States.

**Nations:**

*   United States
*   France
*   Brazil
*   Cuba

**Conclusions and Actions Requested:**

*   A-1 should gather information on the Subject's current situation in Brazil, his contacts in the Cuban community, and his Cuban contacts in Cuba, without revealing A-1's connections with the CIA.
*   NE/5 will handle contact with Charlie Davis and subsequent contact with Tegel.
*   If the Subject contacts ALEHIP-1, the latter should debrief him on his PERUEN contacts and, if he appears operationally useful, set up a contact in Rio de Janeiro.