This document is a memo from the FBI headquarters to Mr. Nasca, SAC, New Orleans, dated September 23, 1960, regarding Petros Moutsos, who was utilized by the CIA as an informant in the communist-dominated Greek Maritime Organization (OENO). The CIA states that Moutsos' usefulness has expired due to his desire to leave the OENO atmosphere.

The CIA advised that Moutsos is a crew member of the SS "Radnor," scheduled to dock in New Orleans. The CIA plans for Moutsos to jump ship in New Orleans with the approval of INS, travel to Cuba, and serve as a source of information.

Prior to leaving for Havana, Moutsos will attempt to contact his wife, Angela Boyer, who has a communist background. The CIA hopes that resuming relations with Boyer will help Moutsos establish contacts in communist circles in Cuba.

The memo instructs that this information should not be shared outside the Bureau. Any pertinent information received concerning Moutsos should be promptly furnished to the Bureau.

**People:**

*   Petros Moutsos
*   Angela Boyer
*   Mr. Nasca

**Organizations:**

*   FBI
*   CIA
*   Greek Maritime Organization (OENO)
*   INS

**Nations:**

*   Cuba
*   Greece

**Events:**

*   Moutsos to jump ship in New Orleans
*   Moutsos to travel to Cuba as a source of information
*   Moutsos to contact his wife, Angela Boyer

**Conclusions:**

*   The CIA is using Moutsos as an informant and plans to send him to Cuba.
*   The FBI is being informed of the CIA's plans and instructed to keep the information confidential.
