This document is an FBI report dated October 19, 1962, originating from the Miami (MM) office and addressed to FBI Headquarters (HQ). The subject is SANTIAGO ALVAREZ RODRIGUEZ. The document is classified as Secret and contains information that requires CIA approval for release.

**Key People:**

*   **SANTIAGO ALVAREZ RODRIGUEZ:** The subject of the investigation.
*   **ORLANDO PIEDRA:** To be interviewed in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.
*   **ROBERTO FERNANDEZ MIRANDA:** BATISTA's son-in-law, to be interviewed in Miami.
*   **J. WALTER YEAGLEY:** Assistant Attorney General.
*   **RENE A. RADOLE:** CIA Covert Representative.
*   **FRANK HERNANDEZ:** PSI (under development).
*   **MANOLO STINCER:** PSI (under development).
*   **FELIPE CATASUS PAZOS:** Former Vice Chief of Cuban Air Force under President BATISTA.

**Organizations:**

*   **FBI:** Federal Bureau of Investigation.
*   **CIA:** Central Intelligence Agency.
*   **INS:** Immigration and Naturalization Service.
*   **U.S. Customs**
*   **U.S. Border Patrol**
*   **Department of the Army**

**Events/Allegations:**

*   The report references a Bureau letter to Assistant Attorney General J. WALTER YEAGLEY dated July 31, 1962, containing allegations.
*   Investigation into possible training groups in the Florida Keys.

**Locations:**

*   Miami, Florida
*   Fort Lauderdale, Florida
*   Florida Keys
*   Louisville
*   Newark
*   New Orleans
*   New York

**Conclusions/Actions:**

*   The Miami FBI office will attempt to locate and interview ORLANDO PIEDRA in Fort Lauderdale.
*   The Miami FBI office will maintain contact with informants for information on the subject's activities.
*   The Miami FBI office will locate and interview ROBERTO FERNANDEZ MIRANDA to obtain details on allegations.
*   Several individuals were contacted regarding training groups in the Florida Keys, but they had no knowledge.
