This document is a memorandum from D.J. Brennan, Jr. of the FBI to W.C. Sullivan, dated January 13, 1967, regarding the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and information received from James Angleton, Chief Counterintelligence Staff, CIA.

**People:**

*   **John F. Kennedy:** (Referenced in the title of the document as part of the JFK Assassination Records Act of 1992)
*   **Brennan, D.J. Jr.:** FBI official, author of the memorandum.
*   **Sullivan, W.C.:** Addressee of the memorandum, likely an FBI official.
*   **James Angleton:** Chief of Counterintelligence Staff, CIA. Referred to as "Bureau Source 100".
*   **Torson**
*   **DeLoach**
*   **Mohr**
*   **Wick**
*   **Casper**
*   **Callahan**
*   **Conrad**
*   **Felt**
*   **Gale**
*   **Tavel**
*   **Trotter**
*   **Cotter**
*   **Papich**

**Organizations:**

*   **FBI (Federal Bureau of Investigation):** Originating agency of the document.
*   **CIA (Central Intelligence Agency):** Subject of the memorandum, specifically its relationship with James Angleton.
*   **Israeli Intelligence Service:** Mentioned as working with Angleton on intelligence projects.

**Events:**

*   **Creation of Control File (1953):** The FBI created a file (62-99724) to retain copies of memoranda from James Angleton.
*   **Agreement with Angleton (1953):** An agreement was made where Angleton disseminated information to the FBI, attributed to "Bureau Informant 100."

**Conclusions:**

*   The FBI recommends discontinuing the practice of placing copies of "Bureau Informant 100" (Angleton) material in the control file (62-99724), as it is no longer deemed necessary. The file will continue to be used for retention of mail of a policy nature.
*   Angleton had authority from the CIA to handle intelligence projects and disseminate information to the FBI, reporting only to the Director of the CIA.
*   Angleton ran several intelligence projects, many of them with the Israeli Intelligence Service.
