This document is a memo from the FBI's Miami office to the Director of the FBI, dated July 14, 1967, concerning the "Comite Pro-Liberacion de los Cien" (CPLLC - Committee for the Liberation of the One Hundred) and Jorge Raul Roblejo Lorie.

**Key People:**

*   **Jorge Raul Roblejo Lorie:** Subject of investigation, possibly involved in intelligence activities.
*   **Sergio Oswaldo Betancourt Collazo:** Also known as PSI, connected to the investigation.
*   **Reinaldo Abreu:** Attache at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City, connected with Cuban Intelligence.
*   **Luis Ricardo Alonso:** Former Cuban Ambassador to London who defected in 1965.
*   **Raul Roa:** Cuban Minister of Foreign Relations.
*   **Nicolas Rodriguez Aztaraen:** Attached to the Cuban Mission to the United Nations in New York City.

**Organizations:**

*   **FBI:** Federal Bureau of Investigation.
*   **CIA:** Central Intelligence Agency.
*   **CPLLC:** Comite Pro-Liberacion de los Cien (Committee for the Liberation of the One Hundred).
*   **U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service:** Used as a guise by the CIA.
*   **Cuban Embassy in Mexico City:** Location of Reinaldo Abreu.
*   **Cuban Mission to the United Nations:** Location of Nicolas Rodriguez Aztaraen.
*   **RCMP:** Royal Canadian Mounted Police.

**Nations:**

*   **Cuba:** Country of origin for many individuals involved.
*   **Mexico:** Location of the Cuban Embassy where Abreu is stationed.
*   **United Kingdom:** Where Luis Ricardo Alonso was formerly the Cuban Ambassador.
*   **United States:** Location of FBI and CIA activities, as well as the Cuban Mission to the UN.
*   **Canada:** Where the RCMP may receive information.

**Events:**

*   **Cuban Revolution/Political Prisoners:** The CPLLC is focused on the liberation of one hundred Cuban political prisoners.
*   **Defection of Luis Ricardo Alonso:** Alonso defected from his position as Cuban Ambassador to London in 1965.

**Conclusions:**

*   The FBI is investigating Roblejo's possible involvement in intelligence activities.
*   The CIA is using the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service as a cover to interview Cuban refugees.
*   Reinaldo Abreu is in charge of dealing with Cuban exile and guerrilla groups and is handling the matter of Cuban political prisoners.
*   The information is classified SECRET to protect a potential informant.
*   The RCMP may be furnished with a copy of the LHM if the Bureau decides to disseminate it.
