**Summary:**

This document consists of FBI memoranda from May 1, 1963, concerning LUIS ALBERTO CONDOM CAJIGAL and ALVARO MARTIN FERNANDEZ FOX, both connected to Cuba. The memoranda detail information gathered on their activities, including potential involvement in gambling (bolita racket) and their past associations. The information is classified as "Secret" due to containing CIA information.

**People:**

*   LUIS ALBERTO CONDOM CAJIGAL (aka Luis Condom): Cuban, former CIA collaborator in Havana.
*   ALVARO MARTIN FERNANDEZ FOX (aka Alvaro Fernandez): Cuban, nephew of MARTIN FOX and PEDRO FOX.
*   MARTIN FOX: Former owner of the Tropicana Nightclub in Havana, allegedly involved in the bolita racket in Miami.
*   PEDRO FOX: Uncle of ALVARO FERNANDEZ, residing in Miami.
*   JUSTIN F. GLEICHAUF: CIA representative in Miami.
*   RAFAEL PADRON PRADO: Original source of information, residing in Hialeah, Florida.
*   TULIO PREITO (TULIO INOCENCIO PREETO RUIZ): IS - CUBA.
*   EMILIO FERNANDEZ: U.S. citizen, CIA contact in Havana for CONDOM.
*   STEVE MINAS: U.S. Customs representative in Mexico City.
*   ED FICKIE: Customs Agent in Miami.

**Organizations:**

*   FBI
*   CIA
*   U.S. Customs
*   U.S. Embassy (Mexico)

**Nations:**

*   Cuba
*   United States
*   Mexico

**Events:**

*   Gathering information on Cuban activities in Miami and Mexico.

**Conclusions:**

*   LUIS ALBERTO CONDOM CAJIGAL and ALVARO MARTIN FERNANDEZ FOX are subjects of interest.
*   ALVARO FERNANDEZ may be involved in gambling.
*   The information is classified due to CIA involvement.
*   Cuban activities in Miami and Mexico are being monitored.
