13.00000
104-10408-10078
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

LOUIS STOKES, CHIC, CHAIRMA
HICHARDSON PREYER, N.C.
WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C.
YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF,
SAMUEL
VINE, LOHID
STEWAR MCKINNEY, CONN
HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH
CHARLES TONE, NEDR,
-
78-0070/15
CHRISTOPHER J. DOOO, CONN
HAROLD E. FORD, TENN,
FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND
ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 223-4626
Select Committee on Assassinations
U.S. House of Representatives
3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

FEB 21 1978

Mr. Patrick Carpentier
Office of the Legislative Counsel
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D. C. 20505

Dear Mr. Carpentier:

In connection with the investigation of the House
Select Committee on Assassinations into the death of Presi-
dent John F. Kennedy, I am writing to request that by March
1, 1978, the Central Intelligence Agency provide provi a statement
explaining in detail the reasons for which a 201 file may be
opened. This statement should address the following possible
criteria, individually or in any combination, as well as any
other possible criteria not specifically listed:

1. Possible and actual sources of intelligence
information;

2. Possible and actual intelligence agents, assets,
or contract employees;

3.
4.
5.
::
Travelers, particularly travelers to communist
or unfriendly countries;

Individuals who defect or have attempted to
defect to communist or unfriendly countries;

U. S. servicemen or former U. S. servicemen who
pose counterintelligence dangers by revealing,
offering to reveal, or threatening to reveal
military or intelligence secrets to communist or
unfriendly countries;

6.
:
Individuals whose suspected counterintelligence
activities precipitate changes in United States
military or intelligence codes, methods, sources
or procedures;

13-00000

Mr. Patrick Carpentier
Page Two

7. Individuals who have been contacted by communist
or unfriendly intelligence organizations or in-
strumentalities thereof;

8. Individuals who have received money or other
items of value from communist or unfriendly
governments or instrumentalities thereof; and

9.
Possible and actual foreign intelligence agents
or employees.
:

Please address this statement to the time period 1958-
1964 in particular, and indicate whether there were any
changes in such criteria during these years. Finally, would
you please specify in your response under which criteria, or
combination of criteria, if any, the opening of a 201 file
was considered to be mandatory during this period.g

Sincerely,
12. Robert Bledning

G. Robert Blakey
GRB:mgj
Chief Counsel and Director

13-00000

SECRET
---
OLL#78 0070/
DO/ISS 78-098

28 February 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR:
O/SA/DO/O
Attention: Mr. Shepanek

FROM:
William F. Donnelly
Chief, Information Services Staff

SUBJECT:
House Select Committee on Assassinations
Request for Information on 201 Criteria (S)

REFERENCE:
OLC 78-0070/19, 23 February 1978

1. (S) With reference to the conversation of
27 February between Mr. Shepanek and Mr. Cleffi of ISS,
attached are copies of DOHB 70-1-1, 15 November 1974,
and an earlier version, CSHB 43-1-1 dated 15 February 1960.
A close study of the list of questions submitted by the
HSCA Staff has led us to conclude that the most complete
and effective way to respond would be by inviting the
Staff to review our regulation governing the criteria for
opening, maintaining, controlling and closing 201 files
by the Operations Directorate. A careful reading of the
regulation provides an answer to every question posed by
the Staff.

2. (S) The earlier version of the regulation is
included to reflect the situation as it existed in the
period of their primary concern (1958-1964). The later
version provides an expansion, clarification and refinement
of the earlier versions.

Willians 7. Dammulle
William F. Donnelly

SECRET
イ
E2 INPDET CL BY 015864

13-00000

SECRET

ANNEX B
THE 201 SYSTEM

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III
15 November 1974

Rescission: Annex B of Chapter III, CSHB 70-1-1, 27 October 1966

1. INTRODUCTION

The 201 system provides a method for identifying a person of specific in-
terest to the Operations Directorate and for controlling and filing all pertinent
information about that person. The system also provides a means for identifying
subjects of 201 files from various categories of information about them and for
producing lisits of 201 personalities according to those categories. Only a rela-
tively small number of personalities indexed are of sufficient interest to justify
opening a 201 dossier. These are normally subjects of extensive reporting and
CI investigation, prospective agents and sources, members of groups and organi-
zations of continuing target interest, or subjects on whom a volume of corre-
spondence has accumulated.

2. THE 201 SYSTEM

The principal features of the 201 system are:

a. The 201 Number: a unique number, i.e., 201-1234567, assigned to each
individual in the system to serve as identifying file number for reporting on that
individual.

b. The 201 Dossier: the official file containing the 201 opening form (Form
831) and all biographic reporting on and references to the individual, i.e., per-
sonal history, current status, and prospects.

c. The Master 201 Record: a machine record generated by the opening of
a 201 file. This record produces the master 201 reference for the Main Index and
stores the pertinent information which may later be retrieved for special listings.

d. Main Index Master 201 Reference: this reference, printed in reply to an
Index Search Request, is printed as illustrated below. When data are absent
within the record, succeeding data items or lines will be moved up and the ref-
erence consolidated.

23
SECRET

13-00000
:

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

0002 CROIX, WILLIAM PENDLETON
SEX M DOB 12 APR 26
CIT GERM
Ω
POB GERM, BERLIN 5
OCC PHARMACIST
6
REF AACD-12345, 20 JUN 53 OCC CODE CHEN
SUBJECT RECENTLY ATTENDED THE SEVENTEENTH ANNUAL
7 CONFERENCE OF THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF CHEMISTS
AND PHARMACISTS HELD IN MUNICH, GERMANY FROM 22 THROUGH
29 ОСТОВER.
201-0032671* 8
TYPE NAME T-
ΟΙ CODES AA XX-10
RCD DATE 53.
11

30 NOV 70
(3
Information About Subject
1. Sequence Number and Name
2. Sex and Date of Birth
3. Citizenship
4. Place of Birth
5. Occupation
6. Occupation Code
7. Text

Document Reference Data Group
8. 201 Number.
9. Name Type Indicator
10. OI Codes
11. Record Date (year only)
12. Reference

ISG Control Information
13. Date of latest update of the record
14. STAR Index Record Number
24
SECREA
00833555
14
.:
い

13-00000

SECRET
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974
?

e. Ol Code: a two letter symbol used in conjunction with the 201 per-
sonality records in the 201 system to record the association of an individual
with organizations or activities of operational interest. OI codes cover intelli-
gence and security service affiliation, whether staff or agent, or known or
suspect, as well as activities of DDO interest. There are two categories of Of
codes for use by components:

(1) general Ol codes (Attachment 4)
(2) OI codes assigned to a specific component for intelligence services
or other specific organizations.

À component may request an OI code be established by submitting a mem-
orandum to the DDO/RMO through the component Records Management
Officer.

A 201 personality may be assigned two OI codes. An OI code may be assigned
when the 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831) is initiated (see
paragraph 3b below) by filling in Box 13 or a code may be assigned or added
at a later date by a Form 831 amendment.

The 201 system has the capability of producing machine listings of 201
personalities by OI codes. For example, if an Ol code has been opened for the
security service of a certain country a listing may be compiled of all members
of that service.

f. 201 Machine Lists: produced from the mechanized 201 Index, based on
names or other identifying information of personalities on whom 201 dossiers
exist.

3. OPENING A 201 DOSSIER

a. General

The opening of a 201 dossier is the prerogative of an operational com-
ponent, in coordination with the Information Services Group. An opening creates
a master 201 record. Changes to the master record and the occasional closing
of a 201 dossier are controlled jointly by the desks and ISG. 201 dossiers may be
opened on persons who meet the carding criteria described in Chapter II of this
handbook, when there is a reasonable expectation that additional information
will be acquired and filed in such a dossier. Generally dossiers are opened on
persons about whom counterintelligence information is being reported, and per-
sons of operational interest to the Operations Directorate, specifically those i
persons for whom provisional operational approvals and operational approvals
are requested (see exception below). 201 files are not to be opened on staff:
employees, staff agents and most categories of contract employees. Files on
25
SBORET

13-00000

SE
SECRET
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

persons who are only of local interest to a field station or Headquarters desk
and on whom no DDO records correspondence exists are not a part of the DDO
records system and are to be maintained by that unit. Some desks levy require-
ments on ISG for automatic 201 openings on certain categories of persons whose
names appear in incoming dispatches. These are listed in Attachment 2. 201
dossiers should be opened in the following categories:

(1) Subjects of provisional operational approval and operational ap-
proval requests. However, a file need not be opened when a POA is requested
for persons being trained for a foreign liaison service and who are of opera-
tional interest for training purposes only.

(2) Persons for whom the field requests a 201 opening.

(3) MHFIXTURE personalities: bonafide diplomats of other than
denied area countries, in close association with staff personnel.

(4) Subjects of a Personal Record Questionnaire Part I.

(5) Persons on whom a Main Index search reveals information in five
or more documents (see DOI 70-20).

(6) Subjects of Interagency Source Register memoranda from LSN/
ISR (opened only by IP/RMS).

b. Requesting a 201 File Opening

Headquarters desks may open a 201 file by filling out and submitting
a 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831) to the Records Main-
tenance Section (IP/RMS). Form 831 is also used to create or amend the
master 201 record and 201 machine listings and to register the assign-
ment of a cryptonym to a 201 personality. Attachment 3 consists of sample
201 Personality File Action Requests for opening and amending 201's. A field
station may request the opening of a 201 file by writing 201 in the Head-
quarters file or cross-reference box on the dispatch form and/or after the
subject's name in the body of the dispatch. A telepouch request for a 201 opening
is made by indicating 201- in the file number line. A cable request is made by
placing 201- after the term "File" on the last line of the transmission. IP/AN
will open 201 files as requested by dispatch or telepouch but it is the responsi-
bility of the desk to respond to cable requests. Field stations are notified of
201 openings through receipt of the field master 201 record.
26
SECRÉT
SECR
[

13-00000

SEORET
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974
:

4. CONTENTS OF THE DOSSIER

Information about a 201 personality should be filed or cross-referenced into
his dossier. When additional information is discovered on a 201 subject through
a name trace or other process, i.e., review of predecessor documents, it must
be consolidated into his personality dossier. See DOI 70-20 for consolidation
procedures.

Material which is filed in the dossier includes but is not limited to:

a. 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831).

b. Biographic information including photographs, fingerprints, and
handwriting samples.

c. Personal Record Questionnaire Parts I and II.

d. Operational and other security approvals.

e. Name check replies, requests, clearances, and approvals.

f. Acknowledgement of pseudonym.

g. 201 personality assessments and evaluations.

h. Copy of contract and termination papers.

i. Secrecy agreement.

j. Agent Duty Status Report.

k. Training and evaluation.

l. SGSWIRL report.

m. Newspaper clippings.

n. Any information which helps provide a better understanding of the
subject and our interest in him; this may include operational reporting.

5. MAINTENANCE OF 201 DOSSIERS

The 201 personality dossier contains, in document date order, papers which
have been made a part of the Central Records System as well as those which
have not. Record documents may range from newspaper or magazine articles
on the subject to finance and other administrative papers.
:
:
26.1
SGORET

13-00000

SECRET
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

a. Purging

Purging a 201 dossier is the responsibility of the desk officer. It requires
discrimination in recognizing operationally useful material, rather than the
simple distinction between official and unofficial papers; it will therefore take
place under the supervision of a Records Officer. Purging should be done
periodically. A 201 dossier being forwarded to Central Files for retention should
be purged. A 201 dossier should be purged of the following:
:.

(1) Duplicate material, i.e., exact copy(s) of a document.

(2) Name trace form (Form 362) unless it has been the basis for
the opening.

(3) All abstract slips.

(4) All document restriction notices (Form 1884).

(5) The disseminated version of positive intelligence information if
a copy of the raw report is contained in the 201 file; the dissemination number
then must be transferred to the first page of the raw report.

(6) Routing slips, routing and record sheets (Form 610) and dispatch
cover sheets unless there are remarks such as coordinations or comments.

(7) Record copy documents which only repeat substantive information
contained in other documents in the file; authorization for destruction is
by the Records Officer.

(8) Top Secret documents are not to be retained in a 201 dossier
forwarded to Central Files; the document must be downgraded for retention
in the 201 dossier. To downgrade a Top Secret document, an authorized
officer in the originating office or the Records Officer having jurisdiction
over the contents of the material must possess Top Secret classification
authority. If the document cannot be downgraded the file should be retained
at the desk or the copy of the TS document should be removed, retained
in a desk TS file or forwarded to the Top Secret Control Officer, and a
cross-reference sheet (Form 867) placed in the 201 file giving the location
of the TS document.

(9) Deferred documents (see 5b(2)).

b. Maintenance Procedures

(1) All material in a 201 dossier will be filed in document date order.
In the case of document attachments which have been classified into a 201
26.2
SEORET

13-00000
CFOO

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

dossier and separated from the basic document by the assignment of a slash
number, the attachment will be filed by the date of the basic document.

(2) Deferred documents will not be filed in a 201 dossier. If they are
to be retained in the dossier they should be sent to IP/RMS for classification
into that 201.

(3) Field index cards (held by some desks) and area desk cards may
be retained in the 201 as part of a consolidation procedure. These cards
should be mounted on a full-size sheet of paper for filing in the 201.

(4) A 201 dossier previously opened on a person who becomes a staff
employee and which contains Record Copy documents will be restricted to
the ISG/DIP unless the desk retains the restriction. The dossier should be
closed if there are no Record Copy documents in it.

(5) A 201 opened in pseudonym should be consolidated into the true
name 201 if one exists or converted to the true name.

(6) Field and duplicate (shadow) 201 files no longer of active interest
should be incorporated into the official 201 after the duplicate material
has been purged by the desk officer and the remaining information classified
to that 201 by the Analysis Section (IP/AN).

(7) Any document with a predecessor organization cover sheet or an
OPC (Office of Policy Coordination) cover sheet from the Archives and
Disposition Section (IP/ARD) must be returned to IP/ARD for processing
to the 201.

(8) Desk memoranda (with or without a document source number)
containing substantive or derogatory information on the subject of the 201
should be sent to IP/AN to be classified officially into the 201 file.

(9) An attachment which should be separated from its basic document
for inclusion in a 201 personality dossier will be forwarded with the basic
document to IP/AN for processing into the 201.

(10) To retain the P&L, RYBAT, or KAPOK sensitivity of a document
remaining in a 201 dossier being retired to Central Files, place that document
in an envelope sealed with black tape (see DOI 70-17). Any RYBAT, P&L,
or KAPOK document sent to Central Files not in a black-taped envelope will
automatically be handled as desensitized. A black-taped envelope may con-
tain only one document and must be filed in chronological order within the
file. If there are numerous documents of this type the desk officer may black-
tape the entire dossier rather than individual documents (see DOI 70-10).
26.3
SECRET
:

13-00000

SEGRET
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

Black-taped dossiers or dossiers with black-taped documents will be
handled as restricted dossiers.
:
.:
(11) An. inactive 201 dossier or an inactive volume of a large 201
....dossier on permanent charge should be returned to Central Files under a
Routing and Record Sheet with the notation shown below..:
:
UNCLASSIFIED
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
SUBJECT
PROM
10
1.
2
2
7.
10.
11.
:
12:
13.
14
18.
IP/Files
GC-52
CONFIDENTIAL
SEGAST
ROUTING AND RECORD SHERT
TRANSMITIAL OF INACTIVE 201, DOSSIERS
ave
OFFICER'S Сомментар
PETRALS
(For guidance see CSRB 70-1-1,
Chapter III, Annex B.)
Volume(s) R
of 201-

volume(s)

Restricted Dossier
(Attach Forum 2021 to
Dossier)

Fon-Restricted Dossier

For Split Charge Dossiers:
All documents prior to
::
(date)
forvarded to IP/Files. All
documents after
(date)
:
retained at
desk.

CLO
6106
-74
XSECREP
CONFIDENTIAL
INTERNAL
OSE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED
26.4
SBORET

13-00000

SECRET
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

6. 201 DOSSIER CHARGES

A 201 dossier may be kept on permanent charge at the desk during any
period of active interest. If the dossier is transferred to another desk, the desk
officer who is transferring the dossier must notify Central Files of the transfer.
Central Files will then send the Notice of Transfer of Document or File Account-
ability (Form 2977) to the new action desk officer.

TO:
NAME
CON TUENTIAL
(Thon piiled to)
NOTICE OF TRANSFER OF DOCUMENT OR FILE ACCOUNTABILITY
ICOMPONENT
ROOM
TUSE
EXT.

This is to notify you that sccountability for the document(s) and/or file(s) cited
below has been transferred to you by:
6.

Accordingly, IP's records now reflect you as the custodian. Please contact IP/Files,
Ext. 4362, if you have any questions regarding this transfer.
SUBJECT OF REQUEST
FILE NO.
OCC. SYMBOL RUNSER DOC. DATE
BAYE
OF
TRANSFER
CHAIGK
PCOM
ON TEMP
COMPIOENTHAL
CL BT: 007627
ясо. но.

The new action desk officer must then fill out a 201 Personality File Action
Request (Form 813) to change the action desk designation to insure that the
201 personality will be included in the Headquarters and field machine listings
for his component.

7. RESTRICTED DOSSIERS

a. Access to a sensitive 201 dossier may be restricted by holding the file at the
desk or placing it on restriction in Central Files.

(1) The dossier may be restricted by checking Box 2 on the 201
Personality File Action Request (Form 831) when the file is opened.
26.5
SECRET

13-00000

SECRET
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX в
15 November 1974

(2) The dossier may be restricted by holding it on permanent charge
from Central Files. (Note: To maintain the restriction of a dossier being
returned to Central Files for rétention, a File Restriction Notice (Form
2021) must accompany the dossier.)
:

(3) The dossier may be restricted and held in Central Files by sub-
mitting a File Restriction Notice (Form 2021):
COMELDENTIA
(When Pilled (n)
BATE
INITIALS
TO

IP/FI
GC-52 TUBE DT-6
FILE RESTRICTION NOTICE

IP/DCU
GC-40 TUBE HT-4
ACTION DESK: 1.
To restrict a file, complete Section A (signature of R.O. not
necessary).
2.
To remove a restriction, complete Section B (R.O. signature
Decessary).
SECTION A
FILE NUNG

RESTRICT TO: (Use country or non-country code number. See CSI 70-28)
RESTRICTED BY:
COMPONENT:
(....)
Date:
SECTION B
REMOVE RESTRICTION (AUTHORIZED BY)
COMPONENT:
R.O. No.
Date:
FORM
22021000
CONFIDENTIAL
8-2, IMPORT CL 67, 007622
7

b. Access to a restricted dossier located in Central Files is limited to the
personnel of the restricting desk or persons authorized by that desk. Any request
for the charge of a restricted dossier or any document within a restricted dossier
held in Central Files will be forwarded with the entire dossier and a multiple-
routed cover sheet to the restricting desk. This desk may then forward the file
to the requester or deny the request and return the dossier to Central Files. The
desk will notify the requester of a denial.
:

c. Anyone requesting a restricted dossier, or a document within a restricted
dossier, permanently or temporarily charged to a desk, will be referred to that
desk by Central Files.
26.6
SECRET

13-00000

SECRET
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

8. REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION ON 201 PERSONALITIES

The Automated Index Section (IP/AIS) will provide the identity of the
subject of a 201 number unless the 201 file is restricted, in which case the
requester will be referred to the restricting desk.

IP/AIS will also provide the 201 number assigned to a name, unless the 201
file is restricted, or state that there is no 201 number assigned. Requesters should
supply identifying information whenever available for each name submitted.

Requests pertaining to five or fewer names or numbers may be made by
telephone by calling the IP/AIS red line extension; IP/AIS will provide the
information by return call to the requester's extension as listed in the Badge
Table. Requests for more than five names or numbers must be listed and sent
by tube or courier to IP/AIS; IP/AIS will reply by return mail.

9. 201 DOSSIER CANCELLATION

A 201 file may be authorized for cancellation by a Records Officer, after
appropriate coordination. The file should be forwarded to IP/RMS which will
destroy the folder and the cards leading to it and will remove the name and
number from machine lists. Any Record Copy document contained in the folder
will be reclassified to another appropriate file or sent to the Destruction Unit
(IP/DU) as directed by the desk Records Officer.

10. 201 MACHINE LISTINGS

Machine listings provide field stations and Headquarters desks with names
and 201 numbers in the requester's particular geographic or functional area of
interest. If a component wishes to exclude a sensitive 201 personality from its
alphabetic, numeric, and cryptonym listings, this may be done when opening
the 201 or later by a 201 amendment. On the 201 Personality File Action Request
(Form 831) leave the country of location (Box 15) and interest desk (Box 16)
blank, use the non-country code 900 in the action box (Box 14), and indicate
perinanent charge to the responsible desk. The only listing which will include the
201 number is the IP/201 record for the Vital Records program. 201 listings are
categorized as standard or nonstandard and as scheduled or special.

a. Standard Listings

Issued semi-annually to Headquarters and the field; based on a component's
interest as indicated in the "Action Desk," "Country of Location," and "Interest
26.7
SECRET

13-00000
..

SCOPE
DOHB 70-1-1.
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

Desk" blocks on the 201. Personality File Action Request (Form 831). The
standard listings available are: 1.
:
:
(1) Alphabetical by surname, leading to a 201 number;
:
i
:
:
(2) Alphabetical by given name, leading to a 201 number;

(3) Alphabetical by cryptonym, leading to a 201 number;
:

(4) Numerical, leading to a surname;

(5) Numerical, leading to a cryptonym.

PULA CHINA
201 SIIRNAME ALPHA LIST
03 ICT 1973...
NAME
CHI, Shau 1. 77185/1343/9030/
CHEM. SHOW 1/7115/1343/0001/
TYPE
900
NAME DA/MO/YR
ECBAT/ORGANIZATION INTERNAL USE ONLY
BIRTHPLACE
CERY CITY
201
01-101-2. ACT. LOC. int."

17JULIA
CHIN, RHANG TUNG
CHE SIMS 1. /7115/1343/0001/
CHE, SHOU-JFM 16774/1108/0088
4
24 JANES
CHEY, SHOU EI
CAJAN19
CHER, SINI-16 17104/1343/690
CHAR, SH SH /7L15/1103/001
210СТОВ
4
12 NOV22
CHF
SHCU-TAN
SPMARAS
CHF
SH-15446/7119/1109/1
CHEN SHOU 126 /0701/1343/1POT
CHIEN, SHOリー1/7115/1104/485
14-1にみち おウ
04 JUN99
CHEY, SHP-S4
A
CITY, SM-CH14 /7115/2995/6930
CIM. SMJ CIPIAM 17115/3219/122
CHON, SHU-CHUAN /7115/2495/2
CHES, SU CIF/7115/2-85/2797
02 JUL 30
NOV 30
J
CHFN. SHIJ FLA
R
CHEY, SHI HA 7113/2943/3185/
CIFY, SINJ HS145 17115/2579/74
CF SIP-STUS/7115/29-5/7
CHEN, SHU HS
CHIN. FUKIEN
C41
025EP26
12 JANE
1906C19
CHIN, ΑΦΟΥ
CHIN, FURIEN, PROV.
CHIN, PANCINIPIA, PORT ARTH
CHEN, HUMAN
CHIN
CHEN, CANTאח
CHEN, LEACHINE PRO
CHIN, FUKIEN
CHIN, CAMTO
CHIN, KLANGTIING PROV
CHIN, KWANGTUNG PROV.
CHING HOAN TANG IS
CERC22... CHIM.PFILEu
OF JULI CHING RANGTUNG
10
DIPT
CHENT 0163401
0230059
0179653
BUSP CCOR? 0043751
CHEN? 0234629
CHAT 0179620
CHAT
0069796
DIPT CCO 0905390
ENGR CHAT
0437855
CHEMI OL30415
CCC 0091803
PROF CHIN? 0040298
CHAT? 0052638
ARMY CHAT 0328328
CHINT 012443円
TSEA CHAT 0797335
CHINT 0200223
0994577
CHEN? 0179621
CLEY CIRY CRY
CHIN HK
CHIN CHIN
CHIN
CHIN HK
CHIN CUBA
CHIN CHIN
CHIN
CHIN MALT
CHEK HK
CHER TALW
CHIN
CHIN USA
CHIN TAIV
CHIX HWAT
כיון ווא
CHIN HK
CHEN
CHIN Erut
CHIN CHIN
23FEROT
CHIN, WANGTUNG
CHINT 0044759
CCO? 0073195
CHIN
CHIN
/115/2835/9133
OSMAYEO
CHIN, FOCCHги
CHIN? 0179422
CHIN CHIN
CHI. SHU-
30M4426
DIPT CCOM 0223161
CHIN CET
CHIEN SIMI-1 27115/2205/5030/
CHEH, SIN KIVE! 1115/2695/2710
A
CHIN. HOPET
DIPT CHAT 083-156
CHEN USA
27723
CHIN. FANG CHENG
PROR CHI47 0179673
CHIN CHIN
Corn. SHU LAY
४.
CHIN
CCOM 0221972
CHEN CHIN
CHER, SIPI LIANG 17113/0547/009
CHEN. SINI LIT/7165/2579/2651/
CHEN SHI-LI43 17109/2473/010
CIRCZE
CHEN
DIPT CHINT 0223162
CHEN CHIM
25MOV20-
CHIN. FERGSHUN
CHIN? 0179624
:
CHEN TAIV
01PIL29
CHIN, KIANGSU
MILA COO
0834450