104-10177-10047
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ASSIFIRS MESSAGE
SECRET

MEXICO CITY
WH/SA

VI. FILE, DDP, WH 7, C/1P3, C/ια τ

ECRET 0321302
DIR CITE MEXI 2126.
TYPIC LIGRAFT
PEF DIR 75551

86556516

1, FOLLOWING FROM LICRAFT-1: JOAQUIN MIRABAL IS NOT BROTHER OF
FORMER CONSUL MEXI, HAS ONLY ONE SIBLING, SISTER. OFFICIAL TITLE
ELEGADO DEL MINISTRO DEL INTERIOR EN LA PROVINCIA DE LA HADANA.
HAS AUTHORITY REPRESENT RAMIRC VALDES, ENTER ANY SECURITY OFFICE I
HABANA PROVINCE, ISSUE CEDERS UNDER VALDES AUTHORITY SEARS ARMY
CAPTAINS UNIFORM AND INSIGNIA. IN 195: VAS SECCID IN COMMAND OF G2
HAS AT QUINTA AVENIDA AND CALLE 14. MAN IN COMMAND THEN IS NOU POLICE
CHIEF HABΑΝΑ.
2. NIRABAL CLOSE FIREND. VALDES SINCE LOS BEFORE CASTRO TAKEOVER.
13 FROM HABANA. MOTHER REPORTED TO BE CO TIME COMMUNIST FAMILY HOME
AS ON CALLE COSS, VIBORG, HABANA. IS ABOUT 35 YEARS OLDICRAFT
FIRST MET-IN 1957 AT WHICH TIME MIRABAL WAS CUSTOMS AGENTIN KABANA
SORKING FOR UNCLE ALSO NAMED MIRASAL. FIRY HAD SEARS ROEBUCK ACCOUNT,
MAY HAVE HAD WOOLWORTH ACCOUNT. MIRABAL ABMITTED TO CRAFT THE FAS
MAKING LOTS OF MONEY SMUGGLING LIQUOR PRICE TO 57 MAD HAD A FLINGPAS
POPULAR SINGER, HAS VERY GOOD VOICE VAS VERT, FRIENDLY WITH GUSTAVO
S

CIS NO YO WELL ANAN CAY CHOREOSTA
CIATES THIS FERIOD WERE SUSPECT T
LICRAFT TO ::SIT BAR JUST ESCAPE S :٣٠
EN APPARENT PLACE WAS HOME:
3. AFTER CASTRO MIRALAL WAS ASSIONES ACC.
HABANA PORT, LATER WAS ASSIGNED TO APPORT, WAS IN SERRAT
LEAST EY 1950, PERHAPS EARLIER VERY CLOSE FIRENG OF LAPOR MINISTER
MINISTER MARTINEZ SANCHEZ VIFE WORKED FOR HARDENER SANCHEZ
4. "CHICA 30" FORMANT OF LICRAFT IS MRS. ALBERT RECIO,
ELL STREET, GARY, INDIANA, PHONE 938-5055. SHE IS SISTER
VIFE, DISLIKES MIRABAL INTENSELY BUT DOES NOT DISK AVY MARY A COVE
TO HER SISTER YOULD BE COOPERATIVE IF APPROACHED AFTER ALERTING

PHONE CALL FROM LICRAFT. NEW YORK INFORMANT IS NENICA GARCIA PA
FRIEND OF MRS. RECIO AND OF LOCRAFT, USED TO MALE S
THAT USED BY LICRAFT. LICRAFT WILL CBTAIN HER PRESENT ALONEEE
5. SUGGEST HOS ARRANGE TO INTER.LEW MRS. RECICA
PHONES HER. PLS CABLE NAYE TO BE USED BY INTERVIEWING OFFICER
6. LICRAFT WILL PREPARE STUDY ON MIRABAL. PLS CABLE STIFIC
POINTS VISH COVERED.
SECRET

51BR
