104-10183-10276
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

Am
19 June 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/SA/CI
VIA : Chief, WH/PO/A
SUBJECT : AMMUG/1.Operation
Target Analysis and Non-surfacable Leads

1.  Reference is made to your memorandum date 16 June 1964
    requesting Target Analysis Summary Reports on leads to be
    exploited and lists of those leads which the Branch desires
    not to be surfaced to the Intelligence community.

2.  Attached are separate lists for each appropriate
    Central American and Caribbean country detailing nationals
    of each country whose names have been mentioned or otherwise
    cropped up during the debriefing of AMMUC/1. WH/2 considers,
    at this time, that it is not feasible nor desirable to surface
    any of these leads to the intelligence community, pending a
    final determination as to the feasibility of pursuring some
    of these leads for operational exploitation. Those leada
    which are determined to be of no operational potential will be
    released to your office on a continuing basis for surfacing
    to appropriate agencies.

3.  Attached also are seven completed Target Analysis
    Summary Reports on:

    a) Francisco Javier HELLA Pena

    b) Jaime DURAN Hernando

    c) Socrates Isaias PEGUERO Sehuroer

    d) Jean Norbert MONTERO

    Hara) Mauricio de la SELVA Venegas

    1) Roque DALTON Garcia

-2-

g) Noel GUERRERO Santiago

These individuals represent immediate targets on whon we
have already undertaken action. He anticipate that certain
selected other individuals from the lists cited in
paragraph one above will become targets, and accordingly,
are in the process of examining and investigating these.
As these individuals are culled through, Target Analysis
Summary Reports shall be prepared and forwarded to your
office.

John M. Whitten
C/WH/2

Attachments:
Target Analysis Summary Reports
AMMUG/1 Leads Not to be Disseminated

Distribution:
O & 1-C/WH/SA/CI (w/atts)
1 WH/PO/A (w/atts).
3 WII/2 (w/atts)

Dominican Republic Leads hot to be disseminated
ANKUO/1 Operation
Francisco Javier HELLA Pena
Jaime DURAN Hercando

Socrates Isaias PEGUED Schurcer
Ipidio RJI (this is an alias of "TICON" true name still not known)
David Onelio ESPAILLAT Campos

Francisco Eleuterio RAMOS Poguero
Francisco lizardo RAKCS Peguero
Teresa Inocencia ESPAILLAT Hernandez

Jose Bienvenido GUSINA Nouel
Hector Augusto CARRAL. Ortega
Leopoldo Ariosto GRULON Auiz
Jose CASSA Lagrono
Silvano WRA Viconte

Ilander Canoni SELIG Celmonte
Ana Mercedes SSPIILAL de Castro
Baldemiro ASTRO Garcia
Marcelino GRULION Jimenez
Penito ALEJO German

Horge POTEL Fernandez
Rafael Francisco TAVAS Rosario
Hugo TOYOS Vargas
Cayetano Armando ODRIOJE Delado

-2-
Antonio Exilio Jose DiA Conde
Simon BOLIVAR
Arturo Rafael ASPAILLAT Rodrigues
Carmen E. HERNANDEZ de Faxas
Ernesto LOPEZ Molina
Maximo LOPEZ Molina

Hey. Aumut I
El Salvador Leads Not to be Disseminated
AM00/1 Operation

Roberto BARCIANO Marin GUERRILLA UMRFACE TRAINING
Raul Fernando ESCOBAR Melendez GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING iny X
Carlos Alberto FLORES Hernandez GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING ONLY X
Juan Ramon LOZAND Rosales ALIAS OF ROBERTO BENCIANI MAMI

Carlos MARTINEZ Ortis DEAD - GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING ONLY
Ricardo Augusto MARTINEZ Vanegas GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING
Ivan Danilo RODRIGUSZ Icon GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING.
Lisandro RAMIREZ Solis GUERRILLA WARFIRE TRAINING only X
Pedro FODRIGUEZ GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING ONLY
Ciro Arturo RUI! Torres GUERRILLA WARFARE INAIVING ONLY
Victor Manual SANCHEZ Bonilla GUERRILLA MARFANE TRAINING Cucy
OF VICTOR SANCHEZ B.NILLA
Rafael CONTRERAS Holine P3100
Arturo ALPAK) Fuentes GUERRILLA DWARFARE TRAINING Uncy
Faul Antonio VARIAS GUERRILLA LLARFARE TRAINING CALY
Andres Antonio VELASQUEZ GUERRILLA WARFARE
Roque DALTON Garcia
TA Manuel Antonio CALERO GIF LLARFARE IRRIVING & CON RUNNING
TA Jose Alberto CARRILIA Calderon KNia
TA Jose Salvador Rosales GuERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING
Ricardo 150 Rivas AGENT? [JKIN-1
02
ONLY
02
ERIN-I IN GUNPALT WITH CASTRO

Francisco DUPAN Cardano GUERRILLA LLARFARE caiy X
Freddy Guerra GUERRILLA WARFARE TRALNI слу
Armando LOPEZ Mantiel GRILLA CARFARE r2.0.26
Jose Antonio GARCIA Rivera GUERRILLA LLARFARE TRAINING - X

-2-
Pedro SANTACRUZ Castro GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING cely
Ruben MART. Quardado CERRILLA MAKSAKE TRAINING cuny X
Raul Concepcion Morales NO REGURD IN AMMUG-1 1096x 44/51/CI
Jose MANCIA Martinez Gufe ILLA LAKFAME TRAINING CALY
Ricardo ANT NAME us BY ALEJANO. GOONIEL MULTANE INLY
Jesus Antonio PAZ GUERRILLA LWARFARE TRAINING ONLY
Rita RAMIREZ GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING onry
Podro AR VALO Polar ALIAS OF JESUS ANTONIO PA
Jorge Federico BAIRES] AGENT? AMMUG-Kis-μιζόκιν IN COUT
WITH SUSU
Ana Leticia BAJLAZA (BARRAGAF) Quiroa GHERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING. ENLY X

Raul Castellanos ин/жать IN MEXICO
TA TOMAS QUELLA Riva 209 247 812-500ACENT OG FACELI
TAL20 Lejandro MONTAN 06
Rafael ACEVEDO Hlanco ACCO ADDRESS
Jose Manlio ARGJETA Canad

SECRET

Guatemala Leads Bot to be Disseminated
AM00/1 Operation
Antonio JONH Karcos
Julio CAMREMA Sierra 6/W
Francisco Ciz Figueroa G/W
Victor Kamel CUELLAR Carranza G/W
Bernardo DIAZ Mendez Wou.Y
Rolando HERRERA Hornandez clu
Marco Antonio LEONI Aguilar 6/w AMMUC-/ UNINS
Edgar Roberto LOBO Dubon Gu AMMuc I KNEWS
Joso Aquiles L. MORALES G/W AMMUS-I KNOWS

Manuel Jogue ORTEGA Paz
Angel PALENCIA Sanches G/W ONLY
Ricardo Arturo GUZMAll (pseudos Alberto SANTOS Holgar)
Jacobo ARBENZ Ouzman
Hario BARRIENTOS
Hamuel CALICH
Caraen ROMEROSO Soa
Fernando SOSA Pol
Harco Antonio YON Зоза
Luis Augusto TURCIOS Line

Francisco AMADO Granados
Alicia MOYA do Amado
Joso Manuel FORTUNY
Victor Manuel GUTIERREZ Garbin
Isabel OHL Romero do Sosa
Jose ROGALS
Nolida TURCIOS

SECRET

Faiti Leads Not to be Disseminated
Jorge Norbert MONTERO
Rene DEPESTRE
(Unknown) "PΙΤΙΗ

SECRET

AUD/1 Operation

Honduras Leads Not to be Diasenina tod
Naglio HOREO Espinal
Mario 305SA Navarro
Luis Randolfo BANEGAS

APIUS/1 Operation

Nicaragua Leads Not to be Dissoninated
Noel GUERRERO Santiago
Professor TORRES (probably Edelberto TORRES Espinoza)
Silvio MATURGA (OF MALLORCA)
Ernesto MARTINEZ
German PALACHI Baca
Efrain SANCHAZ
Carlos A. TINDCO Montiel

Harvin CASTRO
Felix HONTERREY Dobil
alicio Diharinto 00:ZALEZ Foreno
Alejandro ALEGRIA Bermudez
Juan Jose GARCIA Lorio
1 ALTAMIRANO
Bayerdo ALTAMIRANO Lopez
Ivan BACA
Alejandro Bבמשא
Anibal LORIO Garcia
Enrique KARENCO
Orlando QUANT Quintena
Rolando QUANT
Monterrey LIES
Rodolfo ROMD Gomes
frain SANCH 2 Sancho

CORET

ANTS/1 Operation

Panama Leads Not to be Disseminated
Thelma KING
Jorge TURNER
(Unknown) "Luis Sonrisa Case" -
2 male guitarists

APW Operation

SECRET
Dominican Republic
Target Analysis Qumary Report
AUG/1 Operation
SUBJECT: Francisco Javier MELLA Pena aka Francisco Javier MELIA Dona
aka "Pichi"
I. Significance of Target
    a) Cuban Intelligence Service Connection
        KILLA has been identified as a Singleton Cuban Intelligence
        Service Agent in the Dominican Republic, trained as a frogsan,
        and also in S/d and ciphers. His exact mission on behalf of
        the CIS is not known.

    b) Communist Party Affiliation
        Subject is a member of the Castroist revolutionary Agrupacion
        Politica Catorce de Junio (APCJl4th of June Folitical Group).
        The APCJ is not a Communist Party per ses however, its present,
        dominant leaders are Narxist-Communist in their political
        direction. The APCJ is presumed penetrated by actual Communista,
        and is known to receive coral and material support from Cuba.

    c) Information which Could be obtained
        1.  His exact mission on behalf of the Cuban Intelligence Service.
            what information is he required to furnish to the Cervice?
            The reason for this information.
        2.  what persons will he use to acquire this information? will
            they all be unwitting?

        3.  what is his exact role as a frogsani (for arus caches,
            demolition etc..)

        4.  Information on his accomodation address in France. Additional
            information on his accomodation address in Jamaica.

        5.  Information on the relationship between Cuba and the APCJ
            and plans for the Dominican Republic.

        6.  Information on other Cuban C agents known to aia.

        7.  Doubling (see III for more details).

SECRET
-2-
II. Current Location
    Hermanos Miralles No. 5, Madrid, Spain (since February 1964, when
    he went there from Cuba. In Madrid, he was joined by his Dominican
    girl-friend, Klaasra SALADDI Decillo, whoa he married there. Neither
    has yet returned to the Dominican Republic.) His last known addres
    in the Dominican Republic is Avenida Independencia No. 55, Santo Domingo.

III. Vulnerabilities (for recruitment or defection)
    None known. The only information on MELLA was acquired in April 1963
    when be transited Mexico enroute to Cuba. At that time Nahid became
    quite upset when "sallo a Cuba" (left for Cuba) was stamped in his
    passport. Accordingly, with this being the only past information on
    Jubject, we would be starting from "scratch".

IV. Family and Relatives
    a) wifes Klonara SALADLI Decillo, Dominican citizen (no information)
        Father: Luis MALLA, Dorinican citizen (no information)
        Mother: Noemi (nes unknown) de ALLLA, Dominican citizen (no information)
            (The Santo Domingo Station is presently conducting an Lovestigation
            of his relatives)

    b) Hone <nom to be in the United States.
V. Biographic
    Date of Birth: 25 February 1937
    Place of Births Santo Comingo, Dominican Republic
    Citizensnips Dominican Republic
    Lanpiarest Native Spanish (only language capability knom to us at
    this time)
    Physical Descriptions
    10 tall
    10 pounds
    black hair (cut short but not crew-cut)
    dary brown eyes
    svarthy complexion
    Motorrach Is available at th

    Other pertinent Patar XA wald be described as "pretty".
    no mustacng and does not shave.

GEORET
VI.
-3-
Operational Leads and Lines to abject for Recruitment or Defection
a) (TA/19 - Lives in saxe aparusent building area as Subject.
Has furnished some information on Subject and his girl-friend,
which he obtained throuza normal contacts.

b) Galme. DURAN Hernando- Operational Lead only (see separate
tarvet shoet). He is close to KiLLA and also could lead us to
a still unifentified CIS agent "TIBURON" who used DURAN as an
unwitting courier for the delivery of microfila to Cuba.

c) 85/1 - Although not a leader of the ArCJ, he honas good access
to the APCJ's extremist "circle". He has been used with extremely
good results for information on other Cuban targets of interest.

VII. Evaluations
a) As was stated above, MELLA is completely new to us. However,
the Station is currently conducting an investigation of HELLA
in an effort to determine ais vulnerability for recruitment/defection.

b) with the present roling Dominican Triumvirate, Subject could be
arrested if he came to security notice, not only in nis position
with the CIS but also if he became involved in any subversive
Communist activities. In the event he is arrested he undoubtedly
would be deported.

Jominican Republic
Target Analysis Xumary Répert
AMNG/1 Operation
SUBJECT: Jaino DURAN Hernando aka Jaime DURAN Hernandes aka "Jimy"
Ι. Significance of Target
    a) Connection with Cuban Intelligence Service
        Subject is not a Cuban Intelligence Service agent, but did
        receive guerrilla training in Cuba.

    b) Communist Party Affiliation
        DURAN is Secretary-General of the pro-Castro Agrupacion Politica
        de Catorce Junio (APCJ-11.th of June Hovement) in the Dominican
        Republic, and is a seaber of that faction of the APCJ favoring
        the training of its aambers to direct the future of a socialist
        governcont.

    c) Subject is a close friend of Francisco Javier MELLA Fena, הב
        identified Cuban Intolligence Service Agent in the Doxinican
        Republic. Subject was also used as an "unsitting" courier by
        a still unidentified Cuban IS agent "TIBURON in the Jozinican
        Republic. Subject unwittingly carried to Cuba for "TION"
        in september 1963, a catch-book containing microfile.

    d) Utility - Penetration of the 14 June & plana & intentions
        of the Cubans vs D.R.

II. Current Location
    Believed to be in Cuba. Has been there since September 12.J.
    Last nom Dominican Republic address: capaillat #20, Santo Domingo,
    Dominican Republic.

III. Vulnerabilities (for recruitent or defection)
    None nom. (Also see VII Evaluation)

IV. Family and relativos
    a) Miro Gloria ACEVELO da Duran, Dominican citizen (no information)
        No other relatives known.

    b) No known relatives in the U.S.A.

-2-
V. Blographic Data
    Date of Birth: 17 June 1933
    Place of Birth: Jarabacos, Dominican Republic
    Citizenships Jominican Republic
    Language ability: Native Spanish (only ability known to us at this time)
    Physical descriptions (requesting from the station)
    Photographs Is available at the Desk

VI. Operational Leads and Lines to subject for Recruitment or Defection
    GHOTH/13 - Lives in the same residential section as URAN. Eas
    furnished some information on Subject, which he obtains through
    normal contacts.

    CROSS/1 - Has provided numerous reports on DURAN's activities
    within the APCJ.

    BOONG/1 Has provided brief information on Subject's activities
    within the APCJ and his travel to Cuba.

VII. Evaluation
    In that we presuso that. UMAN is a hard-core Corumunist and at present
    have scant information for a target assessmont, immediate prosресts
    for recruitant are virtually nill. Requirements can be lovici on
    23/1 since he is a controlled sources information could te
    elicited from TH/19 and possibly from 9/1. As developed,
    leads from foregoing could be followed up on, but, as indicated
    above, we will bo starting at the bottom of the ladder on LURAN as an
    operational target.

SECRET

Cuba Dominican Republic
Tarret Analysis Summary Report
A03/1 Operation
SUBJECT: Socrates Isaias PEGUERO Schuorer alias Nelson BARET Disia aka "Pupo"
I. Sinificance of Target
    In that Subject lives in Cuba he could be extremoly valuable to
    WH/SA and at/2/Dominican Republic.

    a) Comection with Cuban Intelligence Service
        PEQUE) is the APCJ (Agrupacion Politica Catorce de Junio -
        1 th of June Political Group) representative in Cuba acting
        as focal point between the APCJ and the Cuban Intelligence
        Service (XI).

    b) Communist Party Affiliation
        APCS representative in Cuba. Subject has been reported as a
        manber of the pro-Castro faction of the And since lyul when
        ho vas exiled in Curacao.

    c) Information which Subject Could Furnish
    1. ubject could furnish information on the relationship
        between the Cuban Intelligence Service and the APOJ.

    2. Information on the APCJ as a party, plans, members otc.

    3. Information on Cuban Intellience Service personnel known
        to him.

    :. Fossible operations of the Cuban Intelligence Service against
        the Dominican Republic.

    cossible information on matters of interest to H/SA within Cuba.

    6. Doublin; as a penetration of the Cuban Intelligence Servico
        and the ArcJ.

    7. Information on Cominicans bein: trained in Cuba, not only in
        guerrilla training, but as a ent3.

4
-2-
II. Current Location
    Lives in Habana, Cuba (address wunown). In Cuba te goes by the
    name of Nolson BAR:T.

III. Vulnerabilities (for recruitment or defection)
    Hone known. No information on his activities since 1961 is known.

IV. Family and Relatives
    a) Wife - Gisela SSICION de Peçuero, daughter of formor Dominican
        Consul in Curacao.

    b) Children - one daughter (name and age unknown), and one son
        (name unknown) born in Habana, Cuba in Deceaber 1963.

    c) Father Isaias PEGUER) Perez (doccased)

    d) Mother Tulia (nee unknown) de PUGJERD (no additional information)

    a) Brother Holson Ramon PEQUENO Senuorer (doccasod)

    f) Sisters Sobeya 0. Fudo Schourer and Maria a. Pal Seniorer
        (no additional inforsation)

    g) No relatives known to be in the United States.
V. Biographic Data
    Date of Birth: 1!. January 1929
    Place of Birthi San Pedro de Macoris, Dominican Republic
    (HOTS: when travelling uses Dominican passport issued 23 July 1763
    in the name of Nelson ALET Disla, date arsi place of births
    23 January 1939, Dominican Republic; occupation: stwient)
    Citizenship: Dominican Republic? possibly changed to Cuban.
    Language ability: Hative spanish; others not known.
    Physical Description: 57" tal
    150 pounds
    brown-sinned
    black cyes
    wears eyeglasses
    ears noustache

    Photograph is available of his and also the real Helson BARET Disla

    Other pertinent data: Laboratory Technician

VI.
-3-
Operational Leads and Lines to Subject for Recruitment or Defection
We have several sources reporting on activities of the APCJ, its
members etc. within the iominican Republic/1 and/or
12/17 could be used to elicit information on PiDUERO through
their normal contacts/1 255/115 being used at this time to
report on other Cuban targets.

VII. avaluation
while there is no inforaation on hand to indicate Subject is
approachable, the fact that he is in Cuba, known to AX-00/1 - whom
aight approach him and has been identified to us he becomes of
operational interest. Obviously our objective is to continue our
interest and collect what information we sight, awaiting the day for
his exit from Cuba. At that time more definitive action might be
considered. His importance as a source of information on inside
Cuba and that country's intention and capabilities on the Dominican
Republic cannot be discounted and merit our continued alertnoss to
his activities and whereabouts,

Target Analysis Summary Report
SUBJECT: Roque DALTON Garcia
I. Significance of Target
AMMUG/1 Operation

DALTON is a recruited agent of the Cuban DGI. He has been
trained in guerrilla warfare, 8/v, radio transmission,
and radio reception. AMMUG/1 claims that Subject is a
member of the Central Committee of the PCES. ANNUG/1
characterized Subject as having excellent contacts within
the DGI in Cuba. Subject is in contact with Mauricio
de la Selva Venegas, the Salvadoran intermediary, in
Mexico City. In view of the above, Subject could be
expected to furnish considerable information on both the
PCES in El Salvador and his activities for the DGI.

II. Current Location
Subject was deported from El Salvador to Mexico in late
January 1964. On 16 June 1964 Subject was spotted by the
Salvadoran National Police in San Salvador, and is now
under surveillance. Exact address will be obtained by
the San Salvadoran Station.

III. Vulnerabilities
AMMUG/1 lists Subject as his leading candidate for recruit-
nent by us. His reasoning on this is that Subject is not
highly motivated, has a weakness for women and the easy
life, and a generally weak nature. AMMIC/1 says that
Subject is very intelligent, but never showed a real desire
to learn during his Cuban training. Subject was given
600 dollars to purchase a radio receiver upon his return
from Cuba, but he apparently spent the money on himself.

IV. Family and Relatives
Pather (deceased) was U.S. citizen. One of Subject's three
brothers fought for the U.S. in Okinawa. A sister,
Margarita, is Mexican citizen who now is in Cubaas a
student.

-2-
V. Biographic Data
    DOB: 14 May 1935
    POB: San Salvador, El Salvador
    Nationality: Salvadoran
    Language Ability: Native Spanish; others not known
    Physical Description: Height 1.68 meters; long thin
    face; black eyes; two gold teech; thinlipped; black
    hair parted on left side.
    Photo Available: Yes

VI. Operational Leads and Lines to Subject for Recruitment
    or Defection

    Subject is known personally by AKMCC-1 and by (JUGRIN-1.
    recently (recruited agent of San Salvador Station, Subject
    is presently under surveillance by the National Police
    in San Salvador (Station has (unilateral penetration of 24
    the police who might be used as a lead into Subject).

VII. Evaluation
    From AMMUG-l's assessment of Subject, based on personal
    knowledge and observation, it would appear that Subject
    would not be a too difficult target to hit. However,
    some of his personal characteristics which have made him
    a handling problem for the DCI would presumably make him
    a handling problem for us. His failure to perform for
    the DGI since October 1963 might mitigate against our
    use of him which would include, presumably, resumption of
    his s/w channel. Nonetheless, AMMUG-1's claim that Subject
    is a maber of the Central Committee of the PCES (nevs to
    us) makes his an operational target for that reason alone.

Haiti
ANMUG/1 Operation
Target Analysis Summary Report
SUBJECT: Jean Norbert MONTERO
Ι. Significance of Target
    a) Comection wita Cuban Intelligence Service
        At this time Subject is not an agent of the Cuban Intelligence
        Service. He is currently in Cuba seeking assistance from the
        DGI for the training of Haitians in guerrilla sarfare activities
        for an eventual thrust against siti to cust President
        Francois JUVALIER.

    b) Communist Party Affiliation
        Secretary-General of the Haitian Liberation Pront, a nexly formed
        party, with the ultimate aim of merying the two communist parties
        of Haiti. Sensitive information available at the Desk indicates
        that this party is Moscow influenced.7

    c) Information which Jubject Could Furnish
    1. Subject could provide valuable information on the Haitian
        Liberation Front, 1.e., its neibers, plans, status with the
        U5S2/Cuba etc.

    2. Information on the USR/Cuba position with respect to laiti.

    3. Information on USSR/Cuba influence and penetrations of
        Haitian exile circles.

    4. Information on Cuban's relationship with President
        Francois DUVALLA.

    5. Information on Haitians now in Cuba and/or the USSR.
II. Current Location
    As of April 1961 he was living at the Sotel Calina in Habana, Cuba.
    dis permanent residence is believed to be in Santo Domino, Dominican
    Republic where he has been in extie.

-2-
III. Vulnerabilities for recruitment or defection)
    Yone nom. e's strongly anti-UVALLEK. In that many Haitian
    exile circles as somesnat down on the United States as a result
    of the unsuccessful September 17:3 Invasion of daiti, it is possible
    that subject serely turned to the "left" for assistance in overthrowing
    UVALIER. It is novever quite feasible that he would cooperate with
    time United States if he felt we were taxing an anti-UVALIER stand.

IV. Family and Relatives
    None nom.

V. Biographic Data
    Date of Birth: Jaknown
    Place of Birth: alti (?)
    Citizenshipt aitian
    Language ability: Native French or Creole; very little Spanish
    Physical descriptions fest tall
    10 pounds
    wears mustacho
    egro
    Photograph is available

VI. Operational Leads and Lines to Subsect for Recruitment or defection
    a) CAC-Esitian exile leader in ine pozinican Republic no 24
    housed the Cita) exile group in 1963.3

    b) CFSH/-Caitian exile in the Dominican Republic who stayed 024
    within the Jatinican Republic in 1923.J

    c) (3/1-Asset in aktiwho is only in a position to make
    discreet inmirias regardin KOAT
    d) - Esset in Haiti) co ot in Haitico is only in a position to ma
    discreetries regarding.

VII. Evaluation
    a) Until infomation has been loaned from the assets citod in 71 above
    rewarding vulnerability to recruitment little can be dorm.
    Hoover, ves pointed out in III above, it is highly probable tat
    subject rarely turned to Cuba for assistance in overtarowin: tresident
    DIVALIER af alti.

-3-
b) Subject is not subject to arrest when he returns to the
Dominican Republic, unless of course, his activities with
the Cubans become mon. In any event he definitely would
not return to Haiti, as he would immediately be imprisened
and most probably torturod and killed.

Target Analysis Summary Report
ALY'L/1 Operation
SUBJECT: Yoel GUERRERO Santiago (201-81510)
Ι. Significance of Target
GURIERRO is presently in Xexico and is "intermediary"
between Cuban Is and the FLN in Nicaragua. His Cuban
Intel pseudo is Andres Madariaga. ANGOC-l saw hia in
Mexico in March 1964 regarding funds which the DGI had
provided the FLN. According to AUNDG-1 GULRHERO is
involved in 'lijos de la Tempestad" which also involves
three or four other ICI agents. AHX-l also reported
that GUERRERO is in trouble with the FLN which claims
he spent money inproperly. The FLY has no confidence
in bis and considers hia covaraly and lacking in
fighting spirit. Ey other sources he has been described
as one of the main Communists in Central America. de
was in Cuba in 1939 to get Cubed aid fromthe revolutionary
movement against Nicaragua. He was tormerly a DeNDer
of the Communist Party in Lexico. is van a cell leader
in Corinto and advisor to the tevador's Trioa.

II. Current Location
Be is presently in Mexico. He was a political exile
in Honduras in 1959. He has travelled extensively
throughout Central America and may have been clandestinely
in Nicaragua in July 1968.

III. Vulnerabilities (for recruitment or defection)
ANMUG-1: GUERRERO is in trouble with the FLN which claim
he spent money isproperly. The Fit has no confidence
in his, and considers him cowardly and lacking i
fighting spirit. Among Avi-l documents is a critique
of the abortive incursion in Nicaragun in July 1963 by
Silvio Mayorga and Orlando quant (uintana which blases
GUERAFTO for its failure. GUERE FRO's own account adaita
certain mistakes and tries to justify others. Lovever.
it aust be borne in mind that GUERRERO is a long tisa

-2-
Communist, anti-Somoza revolutionary.

IV. Family and Relatives
    Wife: Ofelia Chacon
    Brother: Dr. Eloy GUERRERO Santiago, suspected
    Communist, says Noel is Coraunist. Eloy is anti-
    Somoza, has spent time in jail.
    Father: Jose F. GUERRERO Castillo, resident of Leon
    (DOI: 1955)

V. Personalia
    DOB: 12 April 1914
    POB: Leon, Nicaragus
    Nationality: Nicaraguan
    Languages: Spanish and English
    Religion: Professes none
    Zuucation: 2 courses first year lav
    Photo: Availablo in Biographic Register
    Physical description: 5'3'. grey hair, dark brown
    eyes, complexion triqueno daro (light brunette).'

VI. Onerational Leads and Lines to Subject for secruitment
    or betection

    AM-1 knows his personally, was in contact with his
    in Mexico lo March 1984.

VII. Evaluation
    In 1942 or 1947 (reported both ways) CUERANNO was expelled
    from the Mexican Communist Party (POI) according to
    another mouber of the PCO (LIMOAN) who was a recruiterat
    candicate (but dropped), and who said that CUERRERO night
    then be amenable to recruitmaat. Apparently no attempt
    was made to recruit him. De has been recorded throughout
    the years since as an active Communist revolutionary sad
    was exiled from Hicaragua for revolutionary activities
    ia 1959. Also in 1959 he went to Ciha and was active
    there in preparing for the revolutionary movement in all
    Latin America. Ho apparently was working for Cuban 13
    at the time of the alortive revolutionary attempt against
    Nicaragua in 1963, as a document provided by A

-3-
written by Madariaga (GUERRERO's psuedo) attempts to
point out reasons for its fallure. Another docent
written by Silvio Kayorga and Orlando quant blanes
"Andres" (GUERRERO) for its failure. GIZEHIRO, Lovever,
sust still be in the good graces of the Cuban IS, if
he is an agent in the "Hijos de la Teapestad" and
serves as "intermediary" to the FLN, or remnants which
nay be roorganizing. It seems highly unlikely that
GUERRERO would be receptive to either recruitment or
defection. AMMG-1 knows him personally and met with
his in Kexico in March 1964. It would appear that
AUNTC-1 could furnish more information about his
contact with GUERRERO which would be helpful ia an
assessment of GUERRKRO.

There is a report that GUERRERO was in Nicaragua
clandestinely in 1962. He would undoubtedly bo
arrested should he return there and his presence
discovered by the Nicaraguans

HOTT: This is not a couplate target analysis and should not
be used as auch.