TO DIRECTOR

FROM JMWAVE

ACTION SAS 8

DDP, ADDP, SOD 6, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CA/O 4, CI, CI/OPS, CI/102, FI/INT, IW, WH 7, AD/CI 2, DD/1, AD/NE

SECRET 120292 DEC 12 68352 63 IN 78746

DIR INFO LANT PACY BARR CITE WAVE 3927

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA: AMICE-14, FROM AMTRUNK-7 WITH PARA I FROM HUMBERTO BERGARA MEMBER OF A DRE-SPONSORED INFILTRATION TEAM, WHO OBTAINED THE INFORMATION FROM UNIDENTIFIED LOCAL FISHERMEN AND PARA 2 FROM IRENE (MILIAN) THE WIDOW OF JUAN MANUEL (MILIAN), WHO RECEIVED THE INFORMATION IN A CALL FROM MAGDALENA ((MONTESINO)), THE MOTHER OF LAZARO CORALIO (ALEJANDRO) MONTESINO) PLEASE PROTECT SUBSOURCES.

RID: NO INDEX. FILED 12292

REPORT CLASS SECRET CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY: CUBA

SUBJ: ARRESTS AND MILITIA VIGILANCE IN THE NORTHERN COASTAL AREA OF

TDCS
PRECEDENCE
ROUTINE
PRIORITY

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

REPORT NO. TUCS

DATE DISTR

PRECEDENCE

REFERENCES IN 78746

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

1. AS OF 5 DECEMBER 1963, THE NORTHERN COASTAL AREA OF MATANZAS PROVINCE, PARTICULARLY THAT IN THE VICINITY OF RIO PALMA (N 23-01, W 80-54), WAS UNDER MILITIA SURVEILLANCE.

2. AS OF 9 DECEMBER, MANY PERSONS HAD BEEN ARRESTED IN MARTI, ITABO, AND MAXIMO GOMEZ, MATANZAS PROVINCE, AND MILITIA WERE ALL ALONG THE COASTLINE IN THIS AREA.

3. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINCSO, COMNAVKEYWEST, USCG (MIAMI).

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET
