14-00000
104-10167-10127

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FROM:
RID/

SECRET
(WHEN FILLED IN)
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
NOTE: In the absence of comments or indication of action
taken, this cover sheet will be destroyed when the
document is filed.

TO
ROOM
NO.
DATE
OFFICERS
INITIALS
RECEIVED FORWARDED
COMMENTS

1. THANE
??/??/?

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20. RIMIS
RID/FI 1400L 2351 QDCHAR

ENCLOSURE

ABSTRACT
INDEX

DATE MICROFILMED
DOCUMENT DATE
JUL-259716
18 any 54
DOCUMENT NUMBER
UMA-12

PERMANENT CHARGE
FOR YOUR RETENTION

RECORD COPY

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

(WHEN FALLED IN)

UNCLASSIFIED INTERNAL
USE ONLY
CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:
NO. UMA 12

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and DATE OFFICER'S COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
building) RECEIVED FORWARDED INITIALS to whom. Drow a line across colume after each comment.)

1. 03 194
WH/IT/AC/Flores

2.

3. AO/Then

4. Carib/c R // COPY DETACHED for
chrons

5. AO/Tharpe 163: Please sel
w that copy quis to
Hava. Discuss
6. +This w/WH3/Cait

7. Carib/R pa Copy suut to
Station Havana
nou accountable
8. pouch & Sept

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14. RI/AN 14 Ple process for
15. RI/FI 201-259716. Levi
this corvisheet artache

FORM
I DEC 56 610 LISE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL UNCLASSIFIED
USE ONLY
G & GOVERNMENT РитONG OFFRE 10-31
-
!

VBR

DISPATCH

TO :Tier, Diven

FROM: KU (KARINZY)
SUBJECT: Report of Contact with DCHAR on 13 August 1957

ACTION REQUIRED

REFERENCES:
See Para 10.
UA-11

CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO
: 17774-12
HEADQUARTERS FILE NO

DATE: 15 August 1957
CHECK () APPOPRIATE BLOCK

MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED
BY QUALIFIED HO. DESK CNLY

1. DCHAR wes asked first to bring me up to date on what he and the others
in his group have been doing and he reported that they were not doing wich of
anything except waiting. Waiting, first, for some funds which they are expertiag
to come primarily from the sale of the 3-5; and, second, waiting for the esta
lishment of sore better commisation with their contacts in Ciba.

2. With regard to the sinaft, DM told me on this date that he believes
he does now have a sale for the aircraft and he thinks the sale price will be between
03$50 and US$55 thousand.

3. AR se i that plz has communicated with comeone co (he vasn't sure cf
the name) in an attempt to it funds fama people in Ciba. EAR presente:
this in the light that co was "authorizing" some people in Cuba to go ahead
and solicit funds. In this acnection, DER mentioned that at pre time in the
past Julio LOBO (note: this name has never been mentioned in any previous conversations
with this group) had considered donating 134100 thousand for the air force school
which DEAR was promoting at that time, ut apparently became frightened of the
deal and nothing along this me materialized. DOEAR said that he was hopef that
sonetine he would be able to reestablish contact with 1030. All is references
entirely coincidentai to my sizgestions zie to BMW that I mat try to bring
this group together with Julia 030. Zaving learned of this previous connection,
I want to revive this idea ani proceed with the pien to bring these two together.

4. If and when they are able to scriate sore funds, it is their intention
to go ahead with their plans for the establishment of a propaganda program which
would be initially voice radi. ODCHAR said that he had been trying to persuase
OLEDBIAS and EDCOVE to a more new program within the limitations which I had sited
for then in a previous meeting (See -). He said he thinks now that this is
the more realistic approach, Dove holds to the original thinking that they 02
cannot comit themselves to sa initations. DER informed me that DCOVE requests
another recting with me. He was told that I would be away for a few days but veuid
contact hin as soon as I retum.

5. I then questioned DCER about his mowledge and DBLAS' mowledge of the
presence of Soviet Russians.DER stated that his only information had come
5 to him through Douglas ROOT (ls to the Canadian via DVR referred to frequentiv
in his carlier debriefing SADELLY et al). Root claimed to his to have seen the 05
Soviets in Santiago de Cuba ani DCHAR said that furthermore he had ottained the names
which he passed to Colonel LS in the American Brassy in Serena. When acced if
he thought these were the same Sovith that 13 hei referred to 'n his testirny
in Washington, DCEAR said he felt that they were, although he believed GORIAS
information was obtained independent of als, DCHAR'S, source.

-05
६. Going on in this vein, DCHAR stated that ROOT is one of several people
whom DEAR encouraged to remain in place and to go afing with Raul CASTRO and others
for the purpose of obtaining are specifie formation on Commists and Commist
activities in the armed forces. de said that along this line had been fint-05
duced to Fidel CAS-30's secret, whose name is Marta. at her Milane
is a scian nack nawe ut at the moment he
recall the nowe Warta". The
this relationship, it was emerted thet thet
there aced in this connectica vere Rasir ALDES, who is close to Paul Castro,
Juan FEDEZ de Castro of a Air force, הר: ב PECHARDO, DAR seys is
en Americas. Da is to י לטלf כל by come means can re-establish comm
cation with these divilunio be will beנבנה ב formation marding
Cezminist activities in the then amped fores.
deel 2 deal of information.

FORM USE PREVIOUS EDITION
10 59 53 REPLACES SO
51205 حوار AND 5129
WHICH ALS DESCLETE

CLASSCATION CONTAIDED
IPAGE NO. 10/BR
1:2

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

.In Ensor to his appeal se, I
devise acme means este
this
FDEZ de stie
word to his wife to contact
purpose of putting afa in content with
in DCZAR's nave to pass on any and all

3. This group still believed, in of has been reported from te,
thet, while they may have some little font view as to how ORGAR
be trusted, Elecy FUTIERREZ Mazoo and 30 and the zen of the Second Front
of the Bocantray are and will remain arti-Castro and eventually will cove against
him.

9. It was learned that is rely Mine in Frank FICRET's house
at 2030 SW 60th Court, Miant, telephone 7-3330. He also informed me that CDETY
had been talking with him about some local friends th whom he produced the
names of some acquaintances of those whose names are 2:ssian. I have not yet
had an opportunity to discuss this with the COWY agent involveč..

10. I will meet with the poup again at the end of this week, at which tice
I expect they will have some codified position with regard to their activities
and will appeal again for assistance. Martie, it is surenied that DCEAR'S
recomendation with regard to having his wife get in touch with FADE de
Castro end to get hin debriefed be passed to the Ravana Station.

Hamley
PATRICK I.

3-ज

FORM
LISE PREVIOUS EDITION
REPLACES FORMS
109 530
51351-28A AHD 51-29
CLASSIFICATION

PAGE NO
2 of 2
