14-00000

14-00000
V
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
noner SELECT COMITTEE ON A
FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME
WICKES, ALASTAIR
201 801702
INCLUSIVE DATES:
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:
DELETIONS, IF ANY:
THIRD AGENCY MATERIAL
WICKES
DATE
DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED
195887 78
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)
WENDY COLLINS
SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
Wendy Colle
NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE
DER
DER

14-00000
TOT OF
REVERENCE
SOURCE INFORMATION
SOURCE
DATE OF INFO.
etc.
if appl
ICATION OF RECORD COPY
EVALUATION
WICKS, ALISTAIR
201-501702
SEX MDOB?
CIT?
200-006-485/03
PAR1-33753
13: NOV 72
SUPRENUN NOTED SPELLING SUBJ NAME IN REPORT
GIVEN AS REEKS FRENCH PHONETIC RENDERING OF
WICK'S
Indicate The Subject, Project Or
201 File No. In Which This
For Is To Be Filed.
SUBJECT OF 201 (Last. First. Middle)
FOM 867
٥٠٠٥
R 7301180251
201-
801702
OPOL PL
(7-46)
SECRET

14-00000
FILE CLASSIFICATION OF RECORD COPY
0020
FILE
SOURCE CRYPTΟΝΥΜ
SECRET
Filled In).
EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
DATE OF INFO.:
EVALUATION
TEXT OF EXTRACT
doc. distribution, Di
WEEKS, ALISTAR
201-801702
SEX M DOB 2
CIT RHODESIA ?
OCC MERCENARY
200-011-010/05
DBD-19954
30 JUL 71
FBI
LOCATED ON IBIZA ISLAND IN THE BELEAR IC
ISLANDS ASSOCIATED W/COL. PETERS AND MIKE
HOARE
Indicate The Subject, Project Or
201 File No. In Which This
Form Is To Be Filed.
SUBJECT OF 201 (Last, Firet, Middls)
FORM 867TIOUS
....
ΕΠΙΤΙΟΝ..
R7109230296
201-801702
SECRET
GROUP
(7-46)

14-00000
(James)
WICKS, Alastair / Major/
DOB: 17 November 1917
POB:
England
Citizenship: Rhodesian
Jul. 66 Address: 38 Montague Square
London W1
1-801702
Mar 67 Address: 199 Bickenhall
Mansions
London W1
(listed under Janis Morris)
Mercenary in Katanga gendarme, 1961
Former RAS (Rhodesian Air Services)official
Recruiter of South Rhodesian mercenaries for Tshombe forces 1964
2nd in Command to Mike HOARE in 5 CDO
Left-Leopoldville Dec 1965 at termination of mercenary contract
for Johannesburg.
One of mercenaries involved in July '66 plot to overthrow MOBUTU
(although still in the pay of MOBUTU)
Also, tried to involve Michael HOARE in the plot. He offered
HOARE 20,000 L for 6 month contract and rank of full Colonel.
Recruiting Officer in South Africa for Tshombe's forces..166
Unwitting SMOTH contact - 1966
Went to London in October 1966
Unscrupulous and undependable
201-801702

14-00000
PRET 2818
(IN 31010)
WICKS, Alastair
30 Sep 1963
Farly Aug Subsect came from Salisbury with uses for
PUREN from Pierre LAUPEYS and Jack Valloch (of Fhode-
sian Air Services)..LAUREYS was arranging for Malloch
to fly out as and ammo to o Rovalists in Yemen. Malloch
PUREN
was to get contract to fly arms from Europe to Yemen also.
was to proceed w/plane via Salisbury to Yemen as official observer
for South African Defense HQS.
AHS 1016
CS DB 312/641-64
18 Sep 1964
Alastair WICKS, former RAS official, returned to
Salisbury to begin the recruitment of Southern
hodesians for service as mercenaries with TSCHOMBE'S
forces in the Congo. In newspaper ad calling for
recruits, interested parties were requested to call Salisbury 55715,
which is the number listed for WICKS in S. Rhodesian telephone direc-
tory.
KINSHASA 0864
(IN 17389)
9 Mar 1967
AZPA 2201
16 Mar 67
HOARE stated he going London about 12 March to
check on Yemen deal. HOARE had previously received
letter from Alastair WICKS in London offering him
job with good pay and conditions. He believes this
job concerns Yemen.
Attached a letter from WICKS to HOARE, indicating WICKS
unable to develop proposition further. HOARE estimates
that the WICKS proposition relates to recruitment of mer-
cenaries for service in Yemen. His only basis for this is develop..
ment reported in AZPA 2200.
201-801702
:
if

4-00000
DISPATCH
Chief, Africa Division
CLASSIFICATION
S-E-C-R-E-T
X
Chief of Station, PRETORIA
OPERATIONAL/SECAROB
REQUIRED-REFERENCES
Letter re Mercenary Affairs
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR DIDEXING
RO BEDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALITES عد
CAN JUDGE DIDERING
Referance: AZPT - 2258, 4 March 1970
1. Forwarded herewith is the substance of the latest letter received
by SECAROB/1 from subject of 201 - 801702 re mercenary affairs and
Zanzibar.
2. During ref trip, PHILBROOK will discuss this letter with SECAROB/1
for further clarification and forward the results to Headquarters.
Attachment.h/w
letter
Distribution:
Orig. & 2 C/AF w/att
SREFERENCE TO
DESPILION STARBOL AND BUMPER
201-001702
AZPA-3050
CLASSIFICATION
S-E-C-R-E-T
Kenneth H. PHILBROOK
DATS
3.00 801702
5 March 1970
HOS FUE KUR
201346685

4-00000
H/WANT TO AZPA-30
5 March 70
We are still held up in one business and 14 Thave had to call
in my own supplies to give an estimate as the previous one,
who was virtually unknown to me, did sot seem to understand
the importance of security in the industrial field today. This
In fact should suit us better as lam sure I can do a bet
a better
deal for us with our own man.
I have had to put off my departure for one week as a result
of this as it was important tant to kee keep my fingers on the pulse at
this moment. I have a meeting with the partners tomorrow when
I hope to get things moving and a firm proposal sent to bankers.
"I mentioned to the partners that you had some novel ideas
to solve the delivery problem and in view of the possible extra
cost, they have asked me to get an outline from you as to what
your ideas are, both froin the point of view of additional expense
which, if adopted, would need to be included in the budget and also
to give some added encouragement since this particular problem
comes up again and again and so far I have refused to be drawn
on the subject though you know my first ideas, I think a letter
to the Club Nautico will reach me safely though it would obviously
be inadvisable to mention the Spice Islands.
I hear there is much afoot in your part of the world and both
Brazzaville and the Sudan have been montioned also another
operation. I hope you will not return to that sort of thing - at
least until we have fully explored the possibilities of the new
company.
(dated 25 February 1970)
* COPY FHEN 301-346685
201-801702
CS COPY

14-00000,
:
NANCY BLAKE
AF/4
6963
9 February 968
SLAGE FO
BOUTING AND/OR DIALS
58 20
SECRET
15
AF7
RID COPY
FILE
jiwa.fication)
SECRET
LAGOS INFO: LONDON
KRHOLLY
REFS:
A
LAGOS 9510 (IN 38143)
BONDON 3161 (IN 39172)
AM
PLE IN COPILS NO.
ABSTRACT X
5.
621-051875
FURE CIVIC 2 clips
NAM
CHE DIRECTOR
(el)
ratorence number).
(pleo)..
WICKES 742817
Fr
201
3P
1. FOLLOWING HOS TRACES ON ALASTAIR WICKES PROBABLY IDENTICAL
WITH JAMES ALASTAER EDMOND VICKS WAS MERCENARY IN KATANGA GENDARME,
1961. IN JULY 1964, RETURNED TO CONGO AS SECOND IN COMMAND TO MICHAEL
HOARE'S WHITE MERCENARY GROUP. WAS LOCAL MERCENARY RECRUITED FOR
TSHOMBE IN SALISBURY. MAJOR IN HEADQUARTERS DETACHMEN DE 5TH COMMANDO
IN CONGO FEBRUARY 1965. RESIGNED FROM 5TH COMMANDO IN DECEMBER 1965,
WENT TO JOHANNESBURG ACTING AS MERCENARY RECRUITING OFFICER IN SOUTH
AFRICA. WAS ONE OF THE MERCENARIES INVOLVED IN JULY 1966 PLOT TO OVER-
THROW MOBUTU BY FORMER CONGOLESE PRIME MINISTER MOISE TSHOMBE INVOLVING
THE 5TH COMMANDO MERCENARIES. IN JULY 1967 WICK'S REPRESENTED JACK
MALLOCH'S AIR TRANS AFRICA IN LONDON. FUNCTION IN LONDON DESCRIBED AS
LIAISON WITH AUTAIR OF LONDON AND TO ARRANGE MERCENARY FLIGHT TO CONGO.
HOWEVER, THESE OPS HAVE VIRTUALLY CEASED. AUGUST 1967 WICKES INVOLVED
IN HERCENARY PLANS TO OVERTHROW CONGOLESE GOVERNMENT. WAS IN LISBON,
MICROFILMED
FEB 27 1968
COORDINATING OFFICERS
DOC. MICRO. BER.
SECRET
RELEASING OFFICER
2
1
B-201-051815
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
CHOUFT
Excluded on automatic
AUINENTICATING
Gomngreiding on
OFFICER
COPY NO.
1-841702
bes-

4-00000
STACLAT DAS
DUOL
RID COPY
RE: LADE FOC
TOTAL COPRIS
SECRET
date
1 CESTBOY ☐ 976320 PM 68
BRANCI
FILE NO.
CITE DELECTOR
PAGE THO
(olme)
reference
74281
NEGOTIATING WITH PORTUGUESE ABOUT SENDING ASSISTANCE TO DISSIDENT
MERCENARY MAJOR JEAN SCHRAME.
IN LATE
MAVICAR JOHN MALLOCH PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH JACK MALLOCH,
FORMER PILOT IN KATANGA AIR FORCE, IS NOW HEAD OF AIR TRANS AFRICA IN
RHODESIA. COMPANY HAS BEEN IN FINANCIAL TROUBLE SINCE 1966. IN ORDER TO
KEEP IN BUSINESS, IT AFPEARS MALLOCH HAS BEEN OBLIGED TO ACCEPT CONTRACTS
WHICH ARE OBVIOUSLY ILLEGAL. IN AUGUST 1967 HE OPERATED TWO CONSTELLA-
TIONS AND A DC-4, LAST MENTIONED USED ON FREIGHT SERVICES FROM LUANDA,
BIAFRA
ANGOLA, AND LISBON, AND ON OPERATIONS FROM SAO TOME TO
AUGUST, MALLOCH FLEW 39 BELGIAN AND FRENCH MERCENARIES INTO PUNIA VIA
LUANDA IN A DC-6. HAD AT HIS DISPOSAL FOR THE AIRLIFT ONE DC-7, TWO
DC-4'S, AND ONE DC-3. WAS WORKING WITH ALASTAIR WICKUS IN THE MERCENARY
PLANS TO OVERTHROW THE CONGOLESE GOVERNMENT. JOHN PETERS ATTEMPTED TO
TIE HIS EFFORT WITH THAT OF WICKES AND MALLOCH, AND THEY TENTATIVELY
AGREED TO A PLAN TO FLY REINFORCEVENTS TO SCHRAMME TO SERCRAF PLANTATION
ATUVIRA. NO INFORMATION ON EITHER WICK'S OR MALLOCH IN FILE AFTER
AUGUST 1967, ALTHOUGH WELL KNOWN THEY CONTINUE ASSOCIATION WITH BIAFRAN
AIRLIFT.
RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICITES
SECRET
Excluded from aromatic
BIOLYT
dcmgrading and
sisuitkelle
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
COPY NO.

4-09000
SCRETARIAT DISSE
MESSAGE FORE
TOTAL COPIES
ROUTING AND OF UNITIALS
SECRET
,
επίνει του
BRANCH
FILE BID
NO MEDEX
EID COPY
FILE
date and Hima iled
(alle)
(pica)
reference
PAGE THREE
CITE DIRECTOR
ITE 74281
3. NO HEADQUARTERS TRACES ON ANY OTHER INDIVIDUALS CITED REF A
ABOVE CAN BE PASSED KRHOLLY/4.
4 FOR LONDON: HEADQUARTERS HAS NO INFORMATION WALLERSTEINER;
PLEASE FORWARD LAGOS YOUR TRACES.
AE/COPS
BELEASING OFFICES
E/BC/UX E
END OF MESSAGE
C/AF/4
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
CHOUFT
counpeeing and
また
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
COPY NO.
ㄱ

14-00000
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSE VON
SIFIED MESSAGE
15 To
21
TOTAL COPIES
NG AND/OR INITIALS: SEEN BY
SECRET
(When Filled In)
CROUPI
BETULARS CA
3
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED.
SLOTTED
4
INDEX VER
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO
201-801702
A-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE AND RET TO FE/4INCH
A
RED COPY
INFO
FILET
DESTROY SIG
CILOPS, CILICZ, EURS
SECRET 1310437 FEB 68 CITE LAGOS 9590
DIRECTOR INFO LONDON
KRHOLLY
REF: A. LAGOS 9518 (432143)
3. LONDON 3161 (4 39172
C. LAGOS 9558 (L44363
D. DIRECTOR 74125
13 Fea 69 150138
AN K
AF/4/N
ABS
APPRECIATE REF. HOWEVER, STATION'S ORIGINAL QUERY
(REF A) NOT ANSWERED.
SECRET
PLEASE ADVISE.
BT
SECRET
201-811702
BIOBLE

14-00000
SECRET
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE
SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT
18 CROSSREFERRED TO THIS FILE
AT
NT. IDENTIFICATION
I FILE
DOC. SYMBOL NO.
DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
WICKS, ALISTAIR
201-801702
CIT 2
OLC ?
007-009-011
LOND-01001
20 AUG 67
JEG-00291
PL
FORMIN MICENARY MAJUR WHO IS STILL IN LISHON.
NEGOTIATING WITH PORTUGUE SE ABOUT SENDING
ASSISTANCE TO DISSIDENT MERCENARY MAJOR JEAN
SCHRAMME.
ACLUPLOBRAHSAZP
FOR
FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
...867............
...
SECRET
R 6708293294
EVALi
FILE IN 201-801702
17-461-

14-00000
SECRET
on Filled t
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE
SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT
TO THIS PIL
DATE
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
ILE NO.
ATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SVWDOL NO.
DATE
SOURCE CRYPTONYMS. DATE OF INFO... EVALUATION
DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
TRANSFERRED TO
PILE
PERTINENTINFORMATION
WICKS, ALISTAIR
201-801702
SEX M 008 ?
CIT ?
OCC ?
007-009-01
BRUS-09865
13 AUG 67.
OBB-07301
P5
RE SUMMARY OF THO PLANS FOR OVERTHROW OF
CONGOLESE GOVERNMENT.
OELACL
FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
70%
SECRET
DATE
R 6708254987
FILE IN 201-201702
17-44)

14-00000
SECRET
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE
SUBJECT OF COCUMENT
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
•RI FILE NO.
OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO
SOURCE CRVP
DATE OF
10. 0185
DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
TO
TRAN
RI FILE NO.
ENT INF
WICKS:
201-801702
SEX M008 ?
CIT ?
OCC ?
201-346685
BRUS-09868
13 AUG 67
P1
RE HERCENARY PLANS TO OVERTHROW CONGOLESE
GOVERNMENT
OELACL
R 6708255679
FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
FO
867
SECRET
FILE IN 201-81712
(7-40)

14-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
AF/345/RE
31 Thanks
MARY GORMLEY
ACTION
RID COPY
