14-00000
104-10100-10034

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

BAL
6153
21 NOV.

200-120-47

MULTI - ADDRESSES CABLE SER BELOW

FROM: DIRECTOR

Conr. SAS O

INFO CC, C/DC, DDP, ADOP, CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, FI, EE
NE 4, CE 6, WH (POUCH FRAN 9 BONN 5, BRLN 5, MUNI
ATHE 6, ALL OTHER BTA'S 3)

15-20 15-13 15-8 15-21
MULTI-ADDRESSEE CABLE

85387

PERUMEN (ZRPRIMA
99
LOND PARI BRUS HAGU COPE STOC OSLO MADR
[ SOME

CABLE SEC: IPLS POUCH CABLE TO FOLLOWING:) (WRENCH POUCH 99

FRAN FROB BONN HAMB BRLN MUNI VIEN ATHE

BERN GNVA CAIR BEIR TEHE TELA RIOD SAOP

HRID SAGO KONT BUEN CARA LAPA LIMA

QUIT GUAT SNTO TOKY HONG WAVE BARC

HELS LISB MILA OTTA TRIE 99

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICE
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

14-00000

ORIGD. FONIS:jd
SAS/FOR
EXT 6153
A: 21 NOV, 63

RAO INDEX
NO INDEX.
SECRET
FILE IN OS FILE NO.
TO CERTAIN STATIONS AND BASES

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONFI

INFO:

200-120-47

ROUING

22 Nov 63 17 832

SIG CEN
DEFERRED
ROUTINE

TO MULTI-ADDRESSEE CABLE INFO
02
PERUMEN (ZR)PRIMA

REF: DIR 22218 *

CITE DIR
85387

1. RECENTLY CONCLUDED HOS REVIEW OF (ZRPRIMA PROGRAM SHOWS
2
THAT KUDAR EFFORTS HAVE NOT ACHIEVED ANY SIGNIFICANT RESULTS AND
CONTINUATION OF PROGRAM AS SUCH NO LONGER WARRANTED. MAIN REASON
FOR KUBARK FAILURE IS THAT CUBAN TECHNICIAN RECRUITING PROGRAM
2
FIDEL'S
EAS BEEN MISERABLE FAILURE WHEY MEASURED AGAIN/ORIGINAL
OBJECTIVE OF 2000 TECHS FROM WESTERN EUROPE ALONE. THOUGH OUR
FIGURES NOT COMPLETE, WE ESTIMATE PROBABLY LESS THAN FIFTY
CANDIDATES HAVE RECEIVED CONTRACT APPROVAL AND WE ABLE CONFIRM
22
ABOUT TEN WEC HAVE ACTUALLY MADE IT TO THE ISLAND, KUBARK
SUCCEEDED IN INSERTING ABOUT THIRTY RECRUITED TECES INTO THE
VARIOUS BIRING CHANNELS, BUT SO FAR ONLY TWO HAVE RECEIVED CONTRACT
APPROVAL FROM HAVA.

2. CUBAN FAILURE TO RECRUIT IN SIGNIFICANT NUMBERS APPEARS
DUE LARGELY TO RELUCTANCE FOREIGN MINISTEY AND FOREIGN SERVICE
OFFICERS PURSUE TECH RECRUITING MISSION AGGRESSIVELY, BUREAUCRATIC
INCOMPETENCE IN HAVANA, FEAR OF INFILTRATION OF HOSTILE AGENTS

RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
SROUP 1
declassification
Samagrading and
REPRODUCTION BY OIMER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
CONT
16318

14-00000
104

FROM DIRECTOR

CONF

INFO:

INDEX
NO INDEX
ONLE IN CEFALE NO.
PAGE THO
INFO
ROUTINE

CITE DIR 85387
శ్రీ

AND PROBABLE LOSS OF INTER ST IN THE PROGRAM ON PART OF CASTRO
HIMSELF. THESE FACTORS WHICH KAEROE FRON OUR STUDY OF THE CUBAN
PERFORMANCE ACCOUNT FOR LACE OF RESPONSE FROM EMBASSIES TO
APPLICATIONS, LOBU DELAY IN GETTING LORD BACK FRON HAVANA AND
SMALL NUMBER OF TECHS ULTIMATELY HIRED, LONG TIME LAG BETWEEN
INITIAL APPLICATION AND ULTIMATE APPROVAL FRON HAVA, WHICH RUNS
SIX TO HINK MONTHS, HAS COST CUBANS NUMBER OF TECHS NHO VERE
INITIALLY EAGER BUT SUBSEQUENTLY LOST INTEREST OR TOOX OTHER
JOBS.
-WISH STREES

3. IN FACE OF FOREGOING WE DO NOT BELIEVE IT WORTHWHILE
02/1
TO CONTINUE INTENSIVE SEARCH FOR (ZRPRIMA CANDIDATES FOR INSERTION
INTO CUBAN HIRING CHANNEL. /STATIONS WITH ACTIVE LEADS SHOULD STAY
WITH THEM IN THE HOPE THEY MAY STILL BE HIRED, BUT CEASE EFFORTS
TO GENERATE LEADS FROM SCRATCH. ON OTHER HAND, THERE ARE PAIR
NUMBER NON BLOC TECHS IN CUBA AND IT LIKELY CUBANS WILL CONTINUE
TO RIVE NEELS
021
TO (GEPRIMA PROGRAM.
ON LIMITED SELECTIVE BASIS AS THEY DID PRIOR
STATIONS THEREFORE ARE URARD 10 wat
ALERT FOR SICH OPPORTUNITIES AND TO EXPLOIT THEM IN SAME HANNER
ALL OTHER OPPORTUNITIES TO PLACE RESIIRNT AGENTS IN CUBA,
RELEASING
COORDINATING OFFICERS
GROUP 1
CONT...
APTHENTICATIN
PEPRODUCTION STO
BLUET
SUING OFACE BETICAL
OFFIGER
16318

14-00000

CON

0.

TO
PAGE THREE
INFO
ROUTINE
CITE DIR
85387
:
3
IN THIS CONNECTION WE NOTE THAT KOST PERUMEN OFFICIALS RESPONSIBLE
FOR RECRUITING TECHS TEND TO RELY HEAVILY ON LOCAL CP STAMP OF
APPROVAL OF OTHER STRONG INDICATION THAT CANDIDATE IS POLITICALLY
ACCEPTALLE. LACKING THIS THEY MAY EITHER IGNORE THE APPLICATION
CR REJECT IT.
071
41
4. RESPONSE OF MOST STATIONS IN IMPLEMENTING (ZEPRIMA HAS
BEEN MOST GRATIFYING. WE PROVIDED CUBANS WITH GOOD NUMBER HIGHLY
QUALIFIED ENGINEERS AND TECENICIANS WHICH THEY FOR REASONS CITED
UNABLE OR UNWILLING TO ACCEPT. KUBARK HAS MADE A RESPECTABLE
EFFORT TO EXPLOIT THIS OPPORTUNITY AND FACT THAT WE HAVE NOT
ACHIEVED SIGNIFICANT LESULTS IS MARELY REFLECTION CUBAN CONFUSION
2
AND INEPTITUDE WITH RESULTANT, FAILURE ACHIEVE THEIR OWN GOALS.
1
5. DISCONTINUE USE USA (ZAPA
Σ
PRIMA SLUG AND FILE 200-120-47.
END OF MESSAGE
CIS COMMENT. Cahia pre-dates CS files. Copy may be seen in GIA
reference file.

MELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
GROUP
Loctuded from Butomatie
SECRET
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

16318

14-00000

FROM: DIRECTOR

INFO
float' more
pri
VILLIY O'RTAR
PAGE JOUR
INFO

CITE
85387

SAS/BOB
SAS/NOB
berr
WE/S BC Loebe
cros me hele
لمعلوا لنا میں
Cillingill

CAZAS
عني
16318
