104-10100-10199 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ORI:
UNIT FE/CIOP
EXT 5602
DATE: 12 OCTOBER 1963

TO: MEXICO CEY

FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF:
C/FL 6

INFO: ASP-CICT, CTFT 2, C/WH 5, D/OS 2, RF, IVR

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
INDEX
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.201-736751
ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
6
DEFERRED
ROUTINE

IMMEDIATE MEXI
INFO
CITE DIR 75338
TO
KAPOK LOHARVEST
REF MEXI 6483 (IN 38148)

1. LIANG SZU CH'ENG 2733 1835 2052, 201-736701 TY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH. MEMBER CCP.
BACKGROUND:
1923 BA TSINGHUA UNIV
28 BA, MA UNIV PAIN
29 MA HARVARD
28-31 PROF AT NATIONAL NORTHEASTERN UNIV, ORELIA
RESEARCH
30-41 UNVERSIEN ARCHITEC UE
32-33 PROF NATIONAL PEKING UNIV; PROF NATIONAL TSINGHUA
UNIV, PEKING
RESEARCH
41-43 RESEARCH FELLOW, ACADEMIA SINICA
10 PROF NATIONAL TSINGHUA UNIV, PEKING
47 HONORARY FED YALE: VISITING PROF YALE
MEMBER OF TSINGHUA UNIV
53-61 HEAD OF DEPT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTUR
TSINGHUA; VICE PRESIDENT ARCHITECTURE SOC!
COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. 15912

ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
TO:

DATE:
FROM:

CONF:
INFO:
IMMEDIATE

56 ASSOC, DEPT DEPTIVER CIVIL AND ARCHITECTURAL
NOV 58
CHINA DEMOCRATIC LEAGUE
SEP 50 NATIONAL COMMITTEE
APR 52
CHINA SCIENTIFIC AND
TECHNICAL ASSOC
DEPUTY SECOND NATIONAL PEOPLE'S CONGRESS FROM
THIRD NATIONAL
COMMITTEE CPPCC
OCT 62 VICE CHAIRMAN CHINA ARCHITECTURAL SOCIETY
SEP 63
DEPUTY LEADER OF CPR DELEGATION TO SEVENTH INTER-
NATIONAL CONGRESS OF ARCHITECTS, HAVANA
2. RE SELF CRITICISM FOLLOWING EXTRACTS FROM LIANG'S SPEECH TO THE
RPC, JULY 13, 1957 ENTITLED "WHY I LOVE OUR PARTY." DEPUTY LIANG, AFTER DESCRIBING
"THE BRILLIANT INDUSTRIAL, AGRICULTURAL, SCIENTIFIC, AND CULTURAL ACHIEVEMENTS
OF OUR NATION," TOLD OF HIS PAST ANXIETY AND PERPLEXITY IN HIS OWN WORK. HE
SAID THAT AT THE TIME HE HAD USED OUT-DATED ARCHITECTURAL THEORIES TO TEACH THE
YOUNG INSTRUCTORS AND STUDENTS OF THE TSINGHUA UNIVERSITY BECAUSE HE WAS BOTHERED

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

ORIG
UNIT
EXT:
TO
DATE:

FROM:
CONF:
INFO:
INFO
ROUTING
5661
12 OCTOBER 1963

MEXICO CELTY

DIRECTOR
:
PAGE THER
:
CITE DIR

INFO:
DOEDIATE
BY
FOR REPUTATION
I WAS DOWNER
WITH THE PARTY
I WAS SURE I WAS BEI
DID NOT FIT INTO THE
THAT OF A CHILD BEING
PARTY AS MUCH AS I HAD
WITH ME. AFTER I CALI
SAID: "I WAS A PRODIGAL SON.
PARTYUT EVEN A JEEP
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

ORIGIN FRANK
UNIT:FE/CIOP
EXT 5661
DATE: 12 OCTOBER 1963

TO:
FROM: DIRECTOR

CON!
INFO
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
INDEX
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

ROUTING

TO:
INFO
CITE DIR
75338

3. BEFLATE 1 (INFO) WAS

OPINION THAT LIANG WOULD
IN PLACE BUT THERE IS CHANCE
HE WOULD ERFACE IF OFFERED CHANCE. FOR FURTHER LIANG,
CANDIDATE FOR

COULD MAKE GOOD IN PLACE MORE.
4. SEEKING BEFLATE 1

BRIDGE TO LIANG. SEFLAER 1

OFFICER. HAS
FOR HUMARK COMPACT BUT

FURTHER BACKGROUND.
5. 3TPLATE 1 WILL USB TOURERY COVER AND WILL REMAIN ONLY THO DAYS DUE
HEAVY PERSONAL COMSIONS FUNCTION WILL
ATTEMPT ESTABLISH CONTACT LIANG AND DETERMINE
IF SO STATION SHOULD BE PREPARED SAFEHOUSE UNTIL FURTHER STEPS CAN BE TAKEN.

6. STPLATE 1 ARRIVING MEXI 12 OCTOBER 2145 HOURS VIA EASTER
AIR LINES FLITE 305. HAVE BRIEFED HIM

BEFDUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

FRANK
FE/CIOP
ORIG
EXT
DATE
ΤΟ
5661
12 OCTOBER 1963
INDEX
NC FILE NO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

12-62
ROUTING
PAGE FIVE
CITE CUR
DEFERRED
ROUTINE
INFO
DOORDIATE MEXI
WILL WEAR RED WITH BLUE TIE. IT CONTACT KISSED STPLATE 1 TO PROCEED
CITY AND CONTACT MARINE GUARD AT EMBASSY ASKING FOR (SAMSEED). AUTHORIZE
STATION ADVANCE OPERATIONAL FUNDS AND PER DIEM AS HECESSARY TO STPLATE i
SINCE NO OPPORTCHITY DO 80 HERE CHARGE LCHARVEST COA.
END OF MESSAGE
RAPOED .HERRER
PI Staff Lloyd George (by phone)

DC/PED/08 Steve Kuhn (by phone)

CI Staff . Mertz (by phone)

DCFE(C)

C/WH/3 J. Whitten (by phone)

William C
CPE
SECRET