## 104-10162-10247 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

[ ] UNCLASSIFIED [ ] INTERNAL USE ONLY [ ] CONFIDENTIAL [ ] SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional) CI Suspect
FROM: P Lepusta EXTENSION NO.
DATE:
TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building) DATE OFFICER'S INITIALS
ROUTING RECEIVED FORWARDED
1. C/SR/CI/I
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8. P Lepasta
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
FORM 3-62 610 [ ] SECRET [ ] CONFIDENTIAL [ ] INTERNAL USE ONLY [ ] UNCLASSIFIED
(COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment)
ais If your time permits, this is the second of the two cases
I discussed with you (spotted through ABAPLEE program).
I would be interested in your views as to his possible IS involvement (and whether I may
be all wet in feeling he is Soviet dispatched).
Do you see an Illegal Support' aspect to this case?
Pocukl

Phap usta

SECRET

ER/O/AC-64-202
22 October 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Irving AMRON

1. Subject responded to the AEEXPLORE ad for a position as a Russian language linguist. As was requested of him, he provided the Forms 444, 89, autobiography, and photograph.

2. The undersigned established contact with Subject by phone on 2 September and arrangements were made to interview him on the following day. He was interviewed in the Undersigned's Philadelphia hotel room on 3 September 1964. The undersigned used the Paul Peters alias and DOD cover.

3. The following was obtained from AMRON during the interview:

a. Subject, of Jewish descent, was born in 1917 in the USA. Subject's father, whose original name had been
Philip AMRONIM
came to the USA in 1905/06 at the age of approximately 15. Philip AMRONIM's parents stemmed from the GOMEL area. At the time of his emigration to the USA, he was accompanied by his mother (his father died sometime prior thereto), and by the following brothers and sisters: Lewis, Willy, Abe (who has since died), Moris, Minnie (now married to LAIKEN), Pearl, and Max. All of Subject's father's brothers except for Max, are butchers by occupation, including Subject's father. Max graduated from CCHY and became a structural engineer; he has an office on 43rd Street and his firm is called the Amron Associates.

b. Subject's mother, also of Jewish descent, came to the USA in 1911 (or 1913). Her older sister, Fannie, is married to (fnu) COHEN who is presently retired and living in Florida. Her sister, Ruth, married Max AMRON. Her brother, Hyman HORLIK, who arrived in the USA only in 1962, owns a liquor store in Bayonne, New Jersey. Subject's mother has another sister (fnu) who is presently living in Florida. Subject's mother has one brother who is still living in the USSR.

SECRET

c. At the time of Subject's birth, Subject's father was employed in the Brooklyn shipyards. However, he changed jobs frequently and was subsequently employed on a farm near New Brunswick, then in a shoe factory as a cutter, then as a butcher, and finally became active in a Jewish cooperative organization. As Subject's father became convinced that the future of the Jews was in Russia under Soviet Communism, in 1931 Subject's family left the USA for the USSR for Birobidzhan where Subject's father worked as an agronomist (he had sometime prior thereto graduated from the National Farm School in Bucks County, Pennsylvania).

d. According to Subject, his family returned to the USA in 1933; the motivating reason therefor was the ill health-- actually only some headaches--of Subject's brother, Eugene. Subject alleges that, because they had retained their US citizenship, they experienced no problems either in leaving the USSR or in obtaining permission to return to the USA. Moreover, Subject's father allegedly did not like life in the USSR; however, Subject's mother and sister insisted that they return to the USSR after only a brief stay in the USA.

e. As a result, later in 1933 the entire AMRON family once again returned to the USSR. Again, Subject states that they had no problems in obtaining authorization from the Soviet government for this trip to the USSR. Upon their return to the USSR, they established themselves in Moscow where one Noah LONDON, a friend of the family and a construction engineer, took Subject's father "into his employ". Subject's father worked in this capacity, in the construction industry, from 1933 to 1936. Sometime after the 1936 purges began, Subject's father worked for Komsomolsk, a Moscow "panel board construction" outfit. In 1936 Subject's father also worked for the Paris Commune as a shoemaker. Subject's mother worked during this entire period as chief of a dining establishment in the school of foreign languages in Moscow.

f. Subject began his elementary education at the DeWitt Clinton School in the USA where he studied until 1931; he then studied in the Soviet secondary school in Khabarovsk, Birobidzhan, until 1933. In 1933 he again returned for one semester to the DeWitt Clinton School. Later in 1933 and 1934 he attended the Anglo-American School in Moscow where he completed his 8th grade of school. He then continued his studies from 1933 to 1936 in Public School #327 in the 24th Bauman Rayon. In 1936 he entered the Moscow Avtodorozhniy Institut where he studied on the civil engineering faculty, to be a highway engineer. He graduated in 1941 at which time he was sent to assist

SECRET

in the construction of an airdrome in Minsk, latfer to the Polish station of Janow.

g. In 1937 Subject's mother was dismissed from her position and both she and Subject's father began to feel the pressure of the purges. Subject's father, allegedly by appealing to the then President KALIMIN, succeeded in again acquiring exit visas for them to the USA. Subject, who admits that he had become a "good Communist" by then had gotton thoroughly steeped" in the Communist philosophy, elected to remain behind in the USSR. An important consideration, he states, was his desire to complete his education which he was certain he would not be able to do in the USA for economic reasons.

h. According to Subject, his father never lost his American citizenship. Subject's mother, however, in 1936 applied for and obtained Soviet citizenship. , , ne actually acquired Soviet citizenship "by default" although he never applied
for this in person; he alleges that although he was 18 years of age at the time, he was "granted" Soviet citizenship by virtue of his mother's application for her own citizenship.

i. Subject remained in Moscow prior to World War II. In April 1940 he married

Nina MOISEYIVA

a bookkeeper by profession,

who was the step-daughter of the well-known Major SHOGOLEV of the "Soviet Proleteriat Regiment". A son was born to them in June 1941. Although at this time Subject was assigned to the construction of aerodromes to support front line troops, he succeeded in pulling strings and in arranging a DY triy" to Moscow, ostensibly to visit the Geodetic Institute. Earcute back from Moscow to the front lines, Subject's train got bombed in Brest Litovsk on 22 June 1941 and as a result he was returned to Moscow on the same train via Baranovichi. According to Subject, he was then assigned to the Moscow Military District, to the Otdel Aerodromnoi Sluzhby, where he was placed in charge of a brigade of engineers, technicians and laborers who were engaged in building dumy air sites for camouflage purposes.

j. In August 1941 Subject states that he was permitted to return to school in order to receive his diploma which was granted him in October 1941. He was then assigned to the 22nd Voyenno-Dorozhaiy Otryad which was formed in Dmitrov but which was then assigned to Suzdal'. Subject states that he was not inducted into the Soviet military service allegedly because "engineers were needed" and

SECRET

because, as a member of the MD, this was considered as equivalent to military service. Nonetheless, in response to my query, Subject admitted that this was unusual as his activities were a kind which were performed by old women particularly since during this period, from October 1941 to September 1942, all able-bodied Soviet males were drafted into the Soviet army. During this period Subject lived in comparative ease, being assigned to Suzdal and Klin, and other towns. According to Subject, be wore an MD uniform but wore no insignia. He admitted that "favored treatment" was bestowed upon him and his family when the MD assisted him in evacuating his first wife and son from Moscow in August 1941 to beyond the Urals. (His son by his first wife reportedly died on 11 October 1943 of diabetes.)

k. In September 1942, Subject received an appointment to the Moscow 2nd Military Infantry Institute from which he graduated in June which be the grate of Soviet Infantry. In response to my query, Subject again admitted that this appointment was highly unusual as his background did not lend itself to this, as appointments were made out of the various military branches, and as this implied that, as a foreigner (American), he was fully and completely trusted by the Soviet punitive organs who had cleared him both for this training and the institute and for promotion to officer status in the Soviet Army.

l. Initially he was sent to Alatev on the Volga, then to Orel where ise was assigned to the front lines in August 1943. He was given a platoon of infantry troops in the 415th Infantry Division of the Soviet Central Front. However, in October 1943 he was wounded; he was hit in the left forehead by a German bullet. He was operated on in a field hospital and then transferred to a Moscow hospital after he had recovered sufficiently. He was reclassified after his recovery and found suitable to continue in military service with the limitation that he should not serve on the front lines (goden vtoroi stepeni).

n. Because the wound failed to heal completely (he has a very obvious scar, with approximately a 1" depression, on his forehead), he "asked" to be assigned to a warmer climate. The Soviet authorities, he states, complied and in January 1944 dispatched him to Tbilisi where he was placed in a special officer's camp; he was hospitalized again, tad osteomyelitis complications, and ultimately discharged from the Soviet military forces. Eowever, Subject provided several contradictory stories as to the date of discharge which at various times be indicated occurred in May 1944, then in July 1944, and even in August 1944. (NOTE: This aspect of Subject's story bothered him as it was obvious to the undersigned that Subject had somewhere become confused in this aspect of his background.)

SECRET

n. Upon his discharge, he was returned to the Moscow area where he was placed in a rest hoc (although Subject admitted that there really existed no need for this as he had recovered already prior to his discharge). In continuing his narration, Subject indicated that the rest of his story "sounds very strange and unbelievable" but then averred that it was true. He states that, strange as it appears and despite the shortage of Soviet men at the time (1944) he could not "find" himself a job. He went to the MVD which did offer him a job in Veliki Laki on the highways with the SoyuzDorog-Proyekt; however, he was not given the job by the officials responsible for this. As a result, he appealed directly to the Minister of the MVD who "tried to intercede in Subject's behalf. Allegedly after he was given a full physical examination, be vas told that he could not be assigned to the highway units for reasons which were not speise out to smject.

o. Subject then "sought out" work with the Nauchniy Sovet with no luck. He ultimately chtained a job with the Moscow Sovet in the Moscow Soviet Senior Library (sic). in November 1944, at a salary of 900 rubles, Subject began working in the field of "information on municipal works-highway construction, architecture, sanitation, etc." His immediate supervisor vas (fnu) LIFEEDEV, the head of information department of the Pydro-Energy Project. Subject admitted, in reply to the undersigned's query, that his work vas "unusuai" for several reasons. First, he was paid a salary which was unusually high and out of line with his qualifications. Secondly, though paid a salary for a full-time job and position, he actuzily worked o a part-time basis and was able to come and go almost as he vished. His work also included working on abstracts and translations from English to Russian, primarily in the field of dams, dam construction, and hydraulics.

p. In June 1949 Subject states that be vas dismissed from the foregoing position after he was given the explanation that the flow of literature from the USA, which Subject was translating, had decreased. In actual fact, Subject states, he was being "purged" because he vas a Jev. Ee then found a job as a laboratory assistant in a concrete plant where he worked from July 1949 to 23 February 1950. Because he did not like that job, Subject states he wrote to Stalin personally as a result of which, within less than 4 weeks, he was offered 4-5 different jobs. The positions vere offered to him by the Moscow Committee of the CP to whom "Stalin had forvarded the letter". In reply to my query, Subject admitted that he was not concerned that, by writing to Stalin, be would come to the attention of the Soviet punitive organs, MVD/MCB, which would undertake to investigate his case. Accordingly, on 1 April 1950 Subject was given a job as an

SECTET

engineer with the Bezman District Road Department where he worked until February 1955.

q. After he lost his job in 1949 with the Moscow Sovet, he states that his relations with his wife went from bad to worse and ultimately cultinated first in a separation and latter in a divorce in 1950. In the meantime, he was already living with

Eugenia VOLSOVA

an employee and a teacher of forensic medicine of the Moscow Medical Institute where she was studying for her PhD and where she was a pathologist med her either in 1950 or 1951. However, within less than one month of their carriage, Subject divorced her as he found out that she vas a "bad person" and because he "had fallen blindly in love" with her. (NOTE: This aspect of Subject's story disturbed tim very much. He was wasure of tinsel, wes vegue on dates, details, specifics, names, etc. It was again obvious that Subject was less than frank and open about this aspect of his background. As narratica did not sound convincing to Subject himself when he began talking about "falling blindly in Love", etc.) In 1952 he began living with another woman,

Rose MINKINA,

whom he married only in late 1954 when their son was already well on the way. MINKINA's parents and family were very strongly opposed to the marriage because the parents held responsible party positions and because MINKIKA's brother held a sensitive position with the Soviet electronics and aviation industries. A son vas born to Subject and MINKINA on 5 April 1955.

r. In ca 1954 (dates vague) Subject entered the Institute of Marxism-Leninism and continued his studies for three or more years. Though he registered for the evening sessions, he devoted a good portion of his days to study. As a result, Subject again admitted to the undersigned that he actually was in a unique position of being able to do almost as he "wished and desired" although ostensibly be was a full-time employee of the Bauman District Road Department. While a student at the Institute of Marxist-Leninism, Subject and his wife began submitting applications for a visa to visit Subject's parents in the USA. In actual fact, Subject states, his real purpose in applying for the visa vas to "defect" upon his arrival in the USA. In February 1955 Subject states that be was fired" from his job with the Bauman District because of "political unreliability". Eovever, Subject admitted to the undersigned that the real reason for dismissal

SOMET

must have been otherwise as, had he actually been dismissed for "political unreliability", he would not have been able to continue his studies at the Institute of Marxism-Leninism.

s. Because Subject had communicated to his father, using "hidden phrases" in their letters to each other, about his wish to leave the USSR, Subject's father arrived in the USSR in 1957 in order, Subject states, "to establish at first hand for himself" whether Subject really wished to "defect to the USA". Subject's father remained in the USSR for a total of 10 days. As a result of his father's visit, Subject changed his tactics and began to submit applications for "imigration" to the USA. As earlier, these were "submitted clandestinely"; Subject states that he continued resubmitting then several times each year.

t. After be left the Bauman District place of employment in February 1955, Subject found work as a "free lance translator for the Moscow Torgovaya Palata. He earned ca 1100 rubles per month translating English language material related to the iron and steel plant which was being designed by the USSR for erection in India. In January 1956 Subject found work as chief of the translations bureau of the Nauchno-Issledov.elriv Institut Ministerstva Mashino Stroyeniya; his functions consisted primarily of supervising the translation of English language manuals on technical equipment. Again, Subject admitted that his work was "unusual" as, in actual fact, he spent 1-2 days at work, spent the rest of his time at home, and devoted most of his time and energy to the studies at the Institute of Marxism-Leninism. His salary continued at 1100 rubles per month.

u. In August 1958 his work came to an end. Generally he provided a contardictory account in this respect. Initially he stated that the position had been eliminated but then changed this story to state that he resigned in August 1956 as he vould have had to begla devoting his full tize to the work. In any case, his resignation generally coincided with his completion of studies at the Institute of Marxism-Leninism. Thereafter, and until his inmigration to the USA in 1962, Sabject held no full tire job. Nonetheless, he states that he succeeded in earning no less than about 1100 rubles per month by working as a free lance translator for the Torgovaya Palata of Moscow. Ee turned over to the undersigned a sample of his translation efforts-see the attached book. In response to. my query, Subject admitted that his work again vas of such a nature that he was a free agent, came and went as he pleased, and generally vas responsible to no one. Apparently in order to

SECTET

forestall any further discussions in this regard, Sub ject then stated that "if you are thinking that I cold have worked for the KGB et this time, then you are right because I had the time to do anything including engaging in intelligence activities'. Eowever, Subject then proceeded to deny that he had then or at any time, tad any relationship with the KGB (or its predecessor organizations).

v. In July 1962 Subject's mother and father came to Moscow, this specifically for the purpose of getting Subject to return to the USA. They stayed in Moscow for a time while father letters to KEPISEY, to Nina PERUSECEVA, to ADZUBEI, to the Supreme Soviet, to the and to other Soviet establish- ments in order to get Subject and his son permission for emteration to the USA. (Subject's wife, MININA, had died in 1961.) In August 1962, while vacationing in Sochi Subject ves sought out by the local Inturist office and apprised by the local militia office that, "in view of your father's strong appeals", the USSR had granted Subject and his son permission to leave the WEER. Upon his return to Moscow, Subject proceeded to the American Embassy where he vas advised that he had not been granted an exit visa by the Soviets. As a result, Subject applied for izigretion to the USA twice, once in the capacity of a Soviet citizen using his Soviet passport, and the second time in the capacity of an "American citizca".

W. In September 1962 the application to travel to the USA as an "izmigrant" was approved for him and his son. Therefore, without waiting to receive approval to travel inder his claim of being an "American citizen", Subject left the SSR and entered the USA on his Soviet passport together with his son on 24 September 1962 via Idlewild. Upon his arrival in the USA, Subject imediately undertook action to have his "American citizenship" restored. This was initially denied as he had admitted that he had voted in the Soviet national elections. However, be then retained an attorney who appealed the case; the original decision was then reversed and both Subject and his son had their IS citizenship restored to them in the sumer of 1963, the reversal was based on Subject's clain that be had had no choice and vas, therefore, compelled to vote in the USSR national elections.

x. Upon his arrival in the SA, Subject immediately applied for a position with the In, however, he was rejected as he was "state- less" at the time. He then accepted a position with Stelling, Lori- Wood, and "sin Suetendale, 26th Street, working on site-planning. His superviser, one Frank McGowan, then recommended Subject to the

SECRET

Blauvelt engineering firm for whom he worked from January 1963 through July 1964. In 1964 Subject fond work with Harold J. SELDIN, 60 Broad Street, Red Bank, Sew Jersey, as an engineer working on the planning and designing of sub-divisions, grading, construction developments, etc. His immediate superviser is the township er vineer of Marlboro Township, New Jersey. Els present salary is $100.00 per month.

y. In April 1963 Subject married
Bella MINCBERG nee MILSTEIN

a Polish Jew who had come to the LEA from Poland in 1949. She has come her age(s) Subject and his son nov live in the home of his present wife.

4. Comments and Assessment:

a. Subject speaks native English and passes for a middle class American. Eis Russian is likewise native.

b. According to Subject, his objective in life Low is to work for the US Government. Ee states that he has submitted Forms 57 to a number of the US Government agencies (he did not elaborate). In applying for the position under AIR, Subject asked for $10,000.00 per annum which is his asking price for a position with the US Goverment.

c. According to Subject, his present position is excellent with great potential for going into partnership as soon as he becomes a licensed engineer. However, he states that he is not interested in making money (despite his request for a $10,000.00 salary) but in "fighting Communism" as an employee of the US Covernment.

d. Subject admitted that he was a firm and strong believer of Communism which, incidentaliy, was the reason why he remained behind in the USSR when his parents returned to the IEA in 1937. Ee states that he continued to be a firm believer of Commism until approxinstely 1958/59 when he became "disenchanted with Communism". Subject denies that he was a menber of the Komsomol or that he had to join the Communist Party, this despite the fact that he became an officer of the Soviet Army and despite the fact that he was accepted to study at the Institute of Marxism-Leninist. Despite his alleged "disenchant- ment" with Communism, Subject spoke in flattering terms about life in the USSR, about the "democracy", about equal opportunities, about the excellent "educational system, et cetera. Subject aimitted that

SEORET

he had led almost a "charming existence" in the 1EER and that neither life in the USSR nor the Soviet authorities ristreated him.

e. According to Subject, be vas never arrested in the Soviet Union.

f. In reply to my query, Subject indicated that in 1958 the KGB tried to co-opt bin into reportinga fellow student at the Institute of Marxism-Leninism. Sovever, Subject states that he rejectd the pitch. In reply to various queries which vere posed to him about the fellow-student (name allegedly nov forgotton), Subject states that he dič render an unfavorable report on the person. Despite this, the particular Soviet was nitizerely assigned ebroed es an interpreter. Subject later heard that the Soviet worked and traveied both Japan ani Itary.

g. In reply to a general query about life in the USSR, Subject indicated that life in the USER has made him into "an accomplished pre-varicator".

h. Subject was less than fluent in relating the story of his life to the undersigned. ñe made mistakes frepeatly, be contra- dicted himself, be altered dates to accomodate other aspects of his activities to correspond with shat he had mentioned earlier, etc. Also, Subject repeatedly tried to digress from relating his story into presenting his views of life; it was a chore to keep hơn on substantive matters relating to his om backgrund.

i. Subject's brother, Eugene, is now exployed as an engineer of the Freehell Township, New Jersey. Additionally, he has a private office in Rockland, New Jersey, called the Civil Engineer Associates.

j. Subject's account of how he acquired Soviet citizenship-- see above- is a very veal item in Subject's scry. He will have us believe that be got Soviet citizenship by default" as a result of his mother's application for Scriett citizenship for herself. He himself admitted to the undersigned that this is illogical as his brother, Eugene, whose status vas no different from Subject's, never acquired Soviet citizenship by default" though Subject did allegedly without any action whatever on his own part. Moreover, Sabject adnitted that he was legally of age (15) by this time and no longer a dependent as a result of which he would have had to apply for a Soviet passport and for Soviet citizenship of his own free volition rather than through his mother.

SEONET

k. Sject is aware that the story of his "imigration" to the USA is also weak. Ee tried to explain this away by stating that be "got cut by mistake", that he was permitted to go to hide the Soviet shame surrounding the Cuban crisis", that "someone had committed an error", etc. Ee admitted that there exists no other explanatica as to why the Soviet goverment vould have permitted him to leave the USSR as, in the eyes of the Soviet goverment, be ves a full fledged and responsible Soviet citizer who had no genuine or legitimate clain to American citizenship. As a result, Subject is usually sensitive to this topic.

5. CONCLUSION:

a. In the opinion of the undersigned, Subject should not be considered for either ARSCREEN or AΞEXPLORE despite the fact both his English and Russian are native.

b. On the basis of the interview, the undersigned feels that, Subject is less than frank and that be is prevaricating. Moreover, there exist imwerable items in Subject's tale which are indicative both that he worked as a recruited agent of the KGB (and its predecessor organizations, in the 11 and that he left the USSR caly through and with the intercession of the KGB.

6. It should be underscord that because of the unique and sensitive cover used by the undersigned, to attempt was made to resolve the various contradictions, to challenge Subject on any of his statements, or to pursue certain points of their logical conclusion. The foregoing vas obtained in the form of an interview and no real attempt could be made, given the cover, to delve nore deeply into the suspicious aspects of Subject's background.
Pieter Pikguntd
PETER P. KAPUSTA
Chief, SR/O/A

SECRET

DO NOT USE THIS SPACE
APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
CIA HISTORICAL-REVIEW PROGRAM

PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT
INSTRUCTIONS

1. Answer all questions completely or check appropriate box. If question is not applicable write "NA". Write "Un- known" only if you do not know the answer and it cannot be obtained from personal records. Use blank space at end of form in extra details on any question for which you have insufficient space.
2. Type, print or write carefully; illegible or complete forms will not receive consideration.
3. Consider your answers carefully. Your signature at the end of this form will certify to their correctness. Carefu! completion of all applicable questions w permit review of your qualifications to the best advantage.

SECTION! GENERAL PERSONAL AND PHYSICAL DATA

NAME (LAST. FIRST, MIDOLI A30
AGE SEX
46 MALE
195 7. COLOR OF HAIR TYPE COMPLEAT
S. TYPE BUILD
BOWN I light heavy
T. SCARS Type and Location)
Deep scar (1"x2") on left part of forehead
FEATURES.
Fone
13. PERMANENT ADDRESSStreet, City, Zone, State and Country) AND PHONE NO.
260 Marshall Court, Long branch, New Jersey. Tel:201-222-8592
14. CURRENT ADDRESSI S same as above
15. OFFICE PHONE NO. & EXT. 16. LEGAL RESIDENCE (State. Teffitory or Country
201-222-3592 NJ
17. RESIDENCE 18. OTHER NAMES YOU HAVE USED
Sone fone
"INDICATE CORCUMSTANCES "Tum Longst Ls UNDER WHICH YOU HAVE EVER USED THESE NAMES.
NA
IF LEGAL CHANGE GIVE PARTICULARS 48. What ACTONY
NA

SECTIONII POSITION DATA

LOCATE THE TOPES GOR OR POSITION PICH YOU ARE APPLYING
Russian language linguist

204 LOCATE THE LOWEST ANNUAL ENTRANCE BALARY TOU PILL 21 DATE AVAILABLE FOR EMPLOYMENT
ACCEPT ow ad considered for ent power)
*GRONOZ salaris 2 weeks after
10,000 amaliy APPROVAL
2. INDICATE YOUR FILLINGNESS TO TRAVEL. OTHER:
CONSTANTLY
FREQUENTLY
OCASIONAL
INDICATE TOUR WILLINGNESS TO ACCEPT ASSIGNMENT IN THE FOLLOWING LOCATIONSICH WASHINGTOR DC
AIRBERE IN US OUTSIDE CONTINENTAL US CERTAIN LOCATIONS CALYSpecity):
INDICATE WHAT RESERVATIONS TOU HOULD PLACE ON ASSIGNMENTS OUTSIDE THE WAR
Possibility of schooling for children

FORM 444 USE PREVIOUS EDITION
DO NOT 42
SECTION .
1. CATE OF BIRTH 2. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country)
Dec.4,1917 Brooklyn, New York
4. CITIZENSHIP ACQUIRED BY
3. PRESENT CITIZENSHIP (Country U. S. A.
MARRIAGE NA OTHER (Specify): 5. GATE NATURALIZED
6. NATURALIZATION CERTIFICATE NO.
NA
8. ISSUED AT (City, State, Country)
9. HAVE YOU HELD PREVIOUS NATIONALITY 10. IF YES, GIVE NAME OF COUNTRY
VES 20 NA
11. GIVE PARTICULARS CONCERNING PREVIOUS NATIONALITY. While I was living in Moscow, the Russian government considered me as a Russian citizen, even though I had never handed in an application for Soviet citizenship. Due to this, and because I was in a rush to leave the country, I arrived as an immigrant on a Soviet foreign passport. In the U. S. Embassy in Moscow I filled in si- zultaneously two applications for entry into the U. S. A. : one as an inmigrant and the other as an American citizen. I received a lonquota 2-E(1) visa dated Sptexter 10, 1952. After arrival the Board of Appeals of the Dept. of State reinstated my native-born citizenship.

12. MAVE YOU TAKEN STEPS TO CHANGE
PRESENT CITIZENS
ES 13. GIVE PARTICULARS
14. IF YOU HAVE APPLIED FOR U.S. CITIZENSHIP, SHAT IS PRESENT STATUS OF YOUR APPLICATION (Prat Papers, E.
15. DATE OF ARRIVAL IN US. 16. ACCI OF ENTRY 17. SCOT OF WHAT COUNTRY Sept. 26, 1952 scov U. S. S. R.
18. LAST US. VISA 16. 19. DATE VISA ISSUED Sept. 10, 1952
I K-2(1) , scow, U. S. S. R.
SECTION IV EDUCATION
1. CHECK (X) HIGHEST LEVEL OF EDUCATION ATTAINED
LESS THAN HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE OVER TWO YEARS OF COLLEGE NO DEGREE
TWO YEARS COLLEGE NO LESS
GRADUATE STUDY LEADING TO HIGHER DEGREE
DOCTOR'S DEGREE
I. NAME OF ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
P. S. 39
14. DATES ATTENDED 1928 to 1930
3. ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
ADDRESS (City, State, Country)
Bronx, N
- GRADUATE
VES
HIGH SCHOOL
1. NAME OF HIGH SCHOOL
No. 327
DATES ATTENDED
1936
1934-to
 NAME OF HIGH SCHOOL
HIGH SCHOOL
ADDRESS (City, State, Country)
Moscow, U. S. S. A.
GRADUATE
YES NO
ADDRESS (City, State, Country)
GRADUATE
NAME AND LOCATION OF COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY MAJOR SUBJECT
CATES ATTENDED
SEMESTER OR
Moscow Automobile & Highway Engineering CI
BATE REC'D
MINOR
1936 141 BS
1941
SECTION CONTINUED TO PAGE

14-00000

SECTION CONTINUED FROM PAGE 2

IF A GRADUATE DEGREE HAS BEEN NOTED IN ITEM 4, WHICH REQUIRED SUBMISSION OF A WRITTEN THESIS. INDICATE THE TITLE
OF THE THESIS AND BRIEFLY DESCRIBE ITS CONTENT.
NA
5. TRADE, COMMERCIAL AND SPECIALIZED SCHOOLS

NAME A) ADDRESS OF SCHOOL STUDY OR SPECIALIZATION
FROM TO MONTHS
Evening University of Political Sciences 1952 1954
Moscow, U. S. S. R.

7. MILITARY TRAINING (FULL TIME DUTY IN SPECIALIZED SCHOOLS SUCH AS ORDMANCE, INTELLIGENCE, COMMUNICATIONS, ETC)
MONTHS
NAME AND ADDRESS OF SCHOOL STUDY OR SPECIALIZATION
FROM TO
2nd Moscow Infantry infantry officer 1942 1943 10
School
Moscow, , s
OTHER EDUCATIONAL TRAINING HOT INDICATED ABOVE. NA

FOREIGN LANGUAGE ABILITIES
SECTION V

1. LANGUAGE COMPETENCE IN ORDER LISTED
HOW ACQUIRED
List Delam Languages in
RRead - W-Write, 5-Speak
which you possess any degree EQUIK-
of competence. Indicate your
ALENT FLUENT ADEQUATE ADEQUATE LIMITED KNOW CONTACT ACADEMIC (wth
TO BUT FOR FOR LONGED STUDY

in the approprate baxles). NATIVE OBVIOUSLY RESEARCH TRAVEL COUNTRY RES DENCE (with LEVEL
Porents, ets)
Russian X X
X
2. IF YOU HAVE CHECKED "ACADEMIC STUDY" UNDER "HOW ACQUIRED". INDICATE LENGTH AND INTENSIVENESS OF STUDY.

NA
3. IF YOU HAVE INDICATED FLUENCY FOR A LANGUAGE HAVING SIGNIFICANT DIFFERENCES IN SPOKEN AND WRITTEN FORM, EX-
PLAIN YOUR COMPETENCE THEREIN.
NA

4. DESCRIBE YOUR ABILITY TO DO SPECIALIZED LANGUAGE WORK INVOLVING VOCABULARIES AND TERMINOLOGY IN THE SCIEN-
TIFIC, ENGINEERING, TELECOMM