14-00000
104-10175-10085
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

VIA ATR
(Spacity Air or Sea Pouch)

DISPATCH NO. 101-A-1552

SECRET
CLASSICATION

DATE 29 June 1954
TO
: Chief, WIDE
FROM:
Chief of Mission, Mexico City
SUBJECT SPECIFIC-Subject of BMW-1507
GENERAL-Operational
REFERENCE: MW-1507, 18 June 1954

1. Subject is contacted by a member of this Mission about twice a
month usually on a semi-social tesis. Subject is quite familiar with the
workingston based on his experience in Panama, his frequent
visits there, and his contacts with this office curing the jaw
From time to time subject provides bits of information cr opinions ca local
affairs which he thinks may be of interest. Ways in which he could be of further
operational use have also been discussed with him in general terms. Subject
has provided his name for use in registering a station autcnobile and for
cbtaining postoffice tozes.

2. Subject appears to be well versed in some of the operational methods
of the organization and has always expressed a willingness to assist in any
way possible. This might include acting as a cut-cut, famishing general
political and Communist information, setting up cover establishments, and lie
development of informants in several fields. To date, no specific cpening for
his services has been evolved but it is highly likely that such a spot will
appear in the future.

3. This Mission foresees no strong obstacle or reason against subject's
being contacted by JUMP again but feels that if subject had any inform
tien of possible interest to this organization he would immediately contact
the writer. In addition, such a contact might possibly re-kindle subject's
previcusly expressed feeling that at times it appeared that "the left hand
didn't know what the right hand was doing". It is suggested that if KUJUMP
has ary specific type of infomation in mind, questions indicating the line of
interest could be forwarded to this Mission and placed before subject for his
corment. If KUJUMP particularly desires to interview subject it is suggested
that this Mission be authorized to so inform subject so that the matter vill
appear completely coordinated in subject's mind.

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION
201 30999

FORM NO. 51-28
108 1949
RI COPY

14-00000

HMRA-1552
29 June 1954
Page two

4. This Mission appreciates the receipt of reference as an excell-
ent example of such coordination.

jmkyusan
Gordon M. Ryerson

GAR/crt

20 June 10,

Distribution:
V3-Wash
2-Files

SECRET
201 20000

14-00000

AiA

1

: Chief of Missios, Mexico City

: Chief, ID

- Operational

- Subject of T-775
AFP: TO-976

...18 1904

1. A representative of A rece tly contacted subject, a ".3. anufacturers
representative, who lives in Mexico City. After KJUMP made its standard
explanation of BARK interests, the subject said that he felt that he
should make it clear that he worked for BRK in Mexico. Fe qualified
in Mexico enabled him to set up
other cover projects for KUBANK, ACID and .

2. Subject seemed multe candid and
to laces and front offices as well es

MP had no reason to believe that he
was not teiling the truth. Subject doubted unat he could zive URL a proet
deal of information which was not available through official atencios
o orating in Mexico. Forever, he seems to be morally cledgeable on the
sitution there and feels that he & be a source of 1:08
interesting information if their contacting him would not interfere i
arrangements which your Hission wint have made with bia.

;

3. Headquarters rempestar cants regarding subject. Meese scrise.es span
as possible, since I would like to contact subject again men he returns
to this country in July.
:

:

11 June 194
Distribution:
3- Kexico City

1-H/Chrono
J. C. ENG
CH

1 - H/Hailroa
WH/III/HJOgden/jw

1- Subj.
J. C. KING

0. M. DOEFLINGER
201. 30999

ABSTRACT
DATE APR 2 1955

14-00000
HMM-W-

Chier, FI/Plan/Cover

Chief, Contact Division, 00
Alfonso R. Wichtrica (HH-1265)
Bost 266
11 May 1954

1. A representative of this Livision recently contacted subject,
a US manufacturers representative, vao lives in Mexico City. Wichtrich
was visiting representatives of two chi Corporation which is one of his
accounts in Mexico City. After our representative made his standard ex
planatica of agency mereة عن ماذtrich said that he felt that he should
make it clear that is versed for we agency in Mexico. de qualified this
statenent by saying wat die extensive background and experience in Mexico
enabled dia to set up neeting places and "front" offices as well as other
"cover" projects for this Agency, we State Department and the Pureau.

2. He seemed quite canció and our representative had no reason to
believe that he was bir telling we truth. wicatrich courted that he
could give us a great deal of information which was not available through
official agencies operating in Fexico, However, he seems to be generally
knowledgeable on the situation there and we believe that he might be
a source of some interesting information if our contacting his would not
interfere with arrangements which the covert offices might have made with
hia,

3. We should ppreciate your comments. If you prefer, we shall not
see him again. On the other hand, if you have no objection, we should like
to contact hia when the returns to this country in July. Please advise.

E. M. ASHCRAFT

1

201 30999
ة

14-00000

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA:
AIR
SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH

DISPATCH NO.7MM-W.976

SELE
CLASSIFICATION
:

TO
FROM
Chief of Station, Mexico
FLT

DATE: 1 February 1950

• WICHTRICH, ALPHONSE R.
SUBJECT: GENERAL.

SPECIFIC.
Operational
Subject of T--975

1. Subject was engaged by our field station, Panama, in October 1947
with the thought that he was qualified to organize a net directed aminot
a target of high priority interest. His services were termicated in
April 1549 when he took residence in Mexico for business reasons.

2. The Chief of Station, Fancas, corpsed its man as having great
singleness of purpose which produces aperior results in the field of his
primary interest. But the experience in anava rempaled that the subject's
primary interest - his business- business was sich that he have little time to
work as an agent.

S. The Subject or guated an inteligopos net for the U.S. Aray in
China during Ford rack, therefore, understands covert operations.
Despite his capabilities, proven reliability and his expressed desire to
to of service in caxion, encertare cos est recommend that the subjost
be enraged by field station, ico, aless there is unusual need for a
man of his background.
RECLASSIFIED
:

RE
EMR:gee
RI/Files
por 201 43-28
m. Wheeler
Tgan

STC
RELEASING OFFICER

201 30999
BSTRACTHEY
DATE AP2 55
COORDINATING OFFICER
SECRET
CLASSIFICATION

PC15 AUTHENTICATIA
FORM NO.
JUN 1948
81-20
OFFICER

14-00000

SECRET
ROUTING AND HECORD SHEET
INSTRUCTIONS:
Officer designations should be used in the "to" column. Under each comment vine should be drawn
across sheet and each comment numbered to correspond with the nuser in the "To coluen. Each officer should initial
Check mark insufficient before further routing.
This Recore and Routing Steet should be returned to Registry.
FROM:
FOT
10.
TRP. A. 650
DATE

TO
ROOM
NO.
DATE
RECED
FOG'L
OFFICER'S
INITIALS
COMMENTS
1.
2.
We
Connelly 26
3.

5.

1.

9.

13.

11.

22.

13.

14.

25.
Reid

FORM BO.
APO 1348
$1.10
pe
4-20
SECRET
201 30999
ABSTRACT
APP 2:55

14-00000

VIA:
OFFICIAL DISPATCH
SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH
DISPATCH NO.
732-1-630

SECRET - ΚΑΡΟΚ
CLASSIFICATION

TO
:
Chief, Foreign Franch T

DATE:
16 Januar 1950
FROM
:
Chief of Station, Panama City, Ponаmа

SUBJECT: GENERAL agents and Teforments

SPECIFIC- Subject of TIP-A-629

The actress of subject is:

Royal Crown, S. L.
Cante #4
Mexico, D. F.

Fairte

Distribution: Tash 2
Files 1

FORM NO. 51-20
APR 1947
< tower W. Antece
Howard intell

SECRET KAPOK
CLASSIFICATION
201 30999

14-00000
1
SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "To" column. Under each comment a line should be dram
across sheet and each comment numbered to correspond alth the number in the "To coluan. Each officer should initial
Check mark insufficiont before further routing.
This Record and Routing Sneat should be returned to Registry.
FROM:

OFFICER'S
INITIALS
TO
ROOH
No.
DATE
REC'D
FOOD
oh
No. 0.
DATE
G3P 4-6 89
1622050
COMMENTS:
7.
FDT 2014

Rodriguez
dian
:

Reid
25 Jan 25 ώθεα 354 Please esiin this disp.
with Vandervoort re a recommendatio

Feild Station Medico
mu
adviced of Hiperole
petean abrevalen
medico. Dispstekas
written by cove
Tmm-41-975
9.

Counally
12.
Reid
12.

13.
10.
6
ne
19.
S9 1514
FORM. NO.
31.10
SECRET
201 30999
STRA
DATE APR 21 1955

080 Περίσων
JAN 23 180
10

14-00000

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

DISPATCH NO.10
VIA:

SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION
}

TO
:
Chief, Foreign Branch T

DATE: 16 Jamar 1950
FROM :
Chief of Station, Panama City, Fanara.

SUBJECT: GENERAL- Agents and Intornants

SPECIFIC FOROL

The services of subject had been terminated prior to zy arrival at this
station and, in fact, subject has not been residing here since my arrival.

-
hocinace in and was introduced to me by
HEDPACD. In the course of the conversation, subject indicated a desire,
after he becomes more settled in lexico City, to have contact with our office
there.

Since Headquarters and particularly Creter J. TAPING are in a better position
to judge subject and whether he might be of assistance to our station in
Mexico City, no recommendation is being made.

The address of subject will follow in a separate dispatch.

Fairte

Distribution: Tash 2
Piss 1

FORM NO.
ΔΡΑ 1947
91-20

Foward. Antell

REGISTRY COPY

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION
01,30999

14-00000

SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
!
INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations (see separate sheet) should be used in the "To" column.
Under each comment a line should be drawn across steet and each comment numbered to correspond
with the romber in the "c" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient)
before further routing. This Record and Routing Sheet should be returned to Registry.
FROM:
FOT
ACCESSION NO.
P.A.607
DATE RECEIVED IN S. A

DATE
TO
ROOM NO.
RECEIVED
FORWARDED
OFFICER'S
INITIALS
1.
it.
2.
3
4.
Pal
5.
Rein
6

7.

8.
8

10

11.

12.

13.

14.

153
COMMENTS

p copy detached you
Ben reser
FORM NO. SI1-10
SEP 1945
SECRET
202.999

201 30999
ABSTRACT
DATE APR 21 1955
:
(1333)

14-00000

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA: AIR
SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH
4

SECRET - ΚΑΡΟΚ
CLASSIFICATION
TO
:
Chief, Foreign Branch T
FROM
:
DISPATCH NO. TZP-A-607

DATE: 4 November 1949

Chief of Station, Panema City, Panama

SUBJECT: GENERAL Administrative

SPECIFIC- HYDROL

For the completion of Headquarters' records, advice is herewith furnished
that subject's services are not being utilised by the Panema City station.
Ta wa made on to Headquarters under date of April 12, 1949 in
TZP-A-454.

No further action is contemplated in connection with this project.
;

BOS:rtp

Distribution: Fast 2
Piles 1

FORM NO. 51-20
APR 1947
Bruce O. Sturgens
Bruce 0. Sturgess

SECRET - ΚΑΡΟΚ
CLASSIFICATION
201 30999

14-00000

MD PORNO σε
Office Memorandum

TO
Chief, Registry Division

FROM :Chief, FBT

SUBJECT:Hydrol

File No. 202-999

•
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DATE:
15 June 1949
1

1. Subject file is transmitted herewith for retentior
in Registry. The project has been terminated.

2. Appropriate indexing has been completed.

3. Access to subject file must be cleared with the Chief
of FBT.
Noti
100t 54
Carded in Riflo

201 30999

14-00000

SLCRET

8 June 1949
Data

LECRANDUM FOR CHEY, CONFIDENTIAL FURIS

SUBJECT: Authorisation of Field Project Experaitures for
Panama City, Para

(field installation)

1. This will infort your of the authorization of the follodas Field
Projects and cy approval of the expercture of special funds for the following:

PROJECT

Name or Srבכס 1 Jal-30 Sep.
HYD FOL
TOTAL

LOUSES AUTHORIZED
1 Oct-32 Doc.

1949
מעל 30-Jan-il ar. 1 Apr
Tered nated
1 April 1949

2. The project expenditures hored Panama City, Pamerged agsinst
the appropriate quarterly Operating Expenses c

ec: TOFF

W. U. WHEELER, JR.

Chie, Foreign Franch
201 30999
TOTAL

14-00000

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA:

SPECIFY AIR CR SEA POUCH

Shuliki
CLASSIFICATION
4

DISPATCH NOTE-454

TO
:
Acting Chief, FET

DATE: 12 April 1940
FROM
:
Chief of Station, Fanara City, Panara

SUBJECT: GENERAL- Agents and Inforzants

SPECIFIC- RYTECT Operational Feview

ΟΡΗΕΑΤΙΟΙAL HEVTA

COUNTRY: YAR. FERIOD COMETED: October 194 March 1949.

1. Subject is no longer an active operative of this station. ile was forced
to discontinue his activities on our behalf because of the press of per-
somal business. ELCAIC is now in contact with Hi ACID and HITROL I
has been taken over by HOROFHCHIC.
1

2. During the period of his connection with this station, ane.CL failed to
submit any informational rerort which in itself merited transmission to
the Home Office. None of his operations were clean in the sense that a
U.S. Covernment influence had to be introduced into the actual activation
of each of his sources. This coupled with the fact that he lacked follow-
through has given a slightly sour aspect to all of his operations. Te
intend to discontinue our connections with Subject.

a

25 Jan 1750
Woring
Grover J. Karing

to apply for a stoff position
Were this mou to ap
that he bed comploye
mon of great puglioness of perfore
I would ecomend to
GJzemh

Iistribution:
Wash (2)
Files (1)

100
Himaytreet on the athis batil the quality
which igen
est to a la feffoflagel
an gine
Aprovech #homecha drawback
to
prefem.OFGSTRY COPY

REGISTEYT
engaged int
me thecome
cort whe
bility of
Uusald
101
decsuals
another country in low they meldetu
FORMND.
31-20
APR 1947
amais
CLASSIFICATION

14-00000

と
DOCUMENTS IN DOSSIER
TZP-A-102

IZP-A-381

IZP-A-454
A-690
A-684
Name check
TZP-151

Project teenstel, Gyond 1945
Rj
ZP. W.975
TLP. W.976
201 30999

14-00000
i
Lemorandum for Chief, Special Funds

Hydrol
$150 for second quarter 1949

Terventet

6 January 1949
201 30909

14-00000

SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations (see separate sheet) scald be used in the "To" column.
Under each comment a line should be trawn across sheet and each comment mmbered to correspond
with the Lumber in the "To" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient)
before further routing. This Record and Routing Sheet should be returned to Registry.
FROM:
FAT
TO
ROOM NO.
DATE
RECEIVED
1.
7

Barton 2216
2.
3.
14.
5.
6

7.

8.
.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.
0.51-10
ACCESSION NO.
TZP-A-381
DATE RECEIVED IN S. A.
OFFICER'S
FORWARDED INITIALS

9/12 77
COMMENTS
Field informed by despatch
on 9 Dec. thit them profes
snot to be actions an

Directed to allot$50.0
er month for Hydrol
and an addition 600
1
for colay and expensin
of this sub a gent
SECRET
201 30999
BSTRACT
DATE APR 21 1955

(1333)

14-00000

OFFICIAL DISPATCH
VIA:

SPECIFY AIR OF SEA POUCH

TO
:
FROM
DISPATCH OP-301

SE-Kapok
CLASSIFICATION
Acting Chief, FET

: Chief of Station
Panama City, Pacoma

22 November, 1948
DATE:

SUBJECT: GENEPAL- Agents and Informants
FORM AJ.
APR 1947

SPECIFIC HYDROL Operational Review and Project Report
Ref: H No. 51
TZP-151
TZP -A102
TZP - 321

COUNTRY: YAWNER
03JECTIVES AND
TASKS:

SALARY
51-20

OPERATIONAL REVIE
PERIOD COVERED: 20 October, 1947 to present.

Subject's original assigment was the estab-
lishment of an intelligence net for the
Republic of Panama with a view to developing
infomation on our varicus YANNER objectives.
The assignment was too bread because sub-
ject is establishing a new business and has not
had sufficient time to devote to our work.
Eis activities were redirected along the lines
of cultivation of specific individuals.
His cultivation and recruitment of the
informant HIDRACTD was excellent. His hand-
ling of the subject of "ZF-A-200 was ex-
cellent. His handling of HYDRATANTAC has.
been unsatisfactory in that he has not spent
sufficient time on the project. He states
he will correct this deficienty. His latest
assigrment is the penetration of communist
circles in the Patioral University of Panama.
He has recruited an excellent individual
for this purpose who will be employed at a
salary of one Hundred Fifty Dollars ($150.00)
per month. This project is approximately
one year old.

To date subject has rot received a salary,
but has been compensated socially and by
St-Kapak
CLASSIFICATION
201 30999

14-00000
-2-
4-
331

EVALUATION OF
SERVICES:

EVALUATICH OF
INFORMATION RE-
CEIVED:

OTHER FACTORS:

COMMENTS:
making purchases for him in the govern-
ment commissaries. We plan to place him
on a salary status in the Mure.
this is done we intend that his solary be
One Hundred Dollars per month (100.0)
per monts. He no longer has cover in his
activities as concerns the C. 3. Am
in
:

tais area. This is due to the fact theyGen.
Sibert CARCarib attempted to recraft him
as an amy informant after subject hat
perfomed two week's active duty with
Army Intelligence. To avoid refusing the
General's request, subject Infomed him
that he was processing his infomation
thrown LIE. Since that date, amy CIC
men have called at sebject's place of busi-
ness inquiring for information. However,
we seen to have his real loyalty and we are
the ones who can provide him with funds to
cultivate sub-agents.

As stated above subject has perfomed ex-
cellent services but has not devoted a
great deal of time to our work. His in-
terest has greatly increased since you
permitted HYDROL to receive home office
training. He has fairly good contacts and
is capable of cultivating almost any one
we might wish. His services should become
more valuable in the immediate future.

To date subject's intelligence information
has only been valuable as a supplement to i
other sources. His operational infomation
has been excellent and is of real value.
He is more interested in the operational
side of cur activities than in reporting.

This agent has been handled as outlined
in T2F-151 subject to the modifications
of increased social contacts necessitated
by the fact that subject's wife is in-
terested in the social advantages to be
gained from her husband's activities.

We plan to continue using this agent to
cultivate other potential agent personnel.
His primary continous project will סס דפי
the penetration of communist activities in
the National University of Panama. We may
rearrange the relationship between EDROL

SECRET - Katok
201 30999

14-00000

SEET-Kapak

3-
TZP -
321

HYDRACID and 3DE in view of CORACID'S
current schooling. This project is still in
the development or probationary stage in that
HYDROL's background is such that he regarda
the sky as the limit in the expenditure of
Intelligence Mads and is inclined to commit
himself financially without real assurance
that we will receive full value for the funds
expended. Realizing that time is an impor-
tant factor in the development of high level
operations we hope this will prove to be
the most efficient expenditure of our funds.
If not we will convert the funds to other
projects. As a matter of operational er-
zacization we feel our ultimate objective
in this area should be to ferret out and
operate with a nimimun number of skilled
American resident agents. Offsetting the
criticism mentioned stove are the facts
that subject man of och e
and definitely a high level operative.

It is requested that Project FOL be
soproved to pemit an expenditure of Seven
Hundred Fifty Dollars ($750.00) per quarter.

REQUEST:
Shovel Waring
cover
1 30999

SECRET - Katok

14-00000
Interview with Alfonso Rudolf Wichtrich by Paul P. Paxton

1. On 17 November 1948, the subject called at Que Building and
was interviewed by Paul P. Paxton. He had been advised to pay his
respects to Harry A.. Real by the Chief of Station, Panama City. The
subject to learn what the procedure would be if he wished to offer
his services with CIA at a future date. At the present tire he is
managing the Royal Crown Bottling Works in Panama City and is negotiating
for a franchise to distribute a milk product in that area. His primary
purpose in coming to the United States at this time was to make arrange-
ments for this latter business venture. The subject has been aiding
the Chief of Station in Panama for the past year in a manner that has been
extremely helpful to our operations. During the war he was a Lt. Col.
in United States Arsy Intelligence serving for a considerable time in
China in an undercover capacity. He gives evidence of being very well
versed in intelligence matters and shows, keen appreciation for security
matters.

2. He stated that within six or eight months his private business
affairs in Fanama would be developed to the point where he could accept.
a position with this Agency in a full-time capacity. He evidenced
interest in either the Latin American aras an in the von ",עולמן
China. Imade no commitéments as far as future employment is concerned
but I did suggest that you visit this headquarters on his next visit
to the United States providing he is in a position to accept full-time
employment. I recommend that his application be given serious con-
sideration in the light of his past intelligence experience and by
virture of his valuable assistance to our operations in Brass.

201 30999

14-00000
FORM NO
APR 1847
MR 25963-Pалата Сатаб-1-29-48-1,000

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA:
SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH

TO
:

SCORET
CLASSIFICATION
sqw
Acting Chief, FBT

FROM : Chief of Station
Fanama City, Fanara
SUBJECT: GENERAL Agents and Informants

SPECIFIC Operational Data - HYDROL

Ref -
DISPATCH NO
イスP-151

DATE:
9. July 1948
TZP-A-102, TASH/F 8786 and PACY 188

BIOGRAPHICAL DATA

1. HYDROL.

2. Subject's background has been with the U. S. Army in China,
where he crganized a complete intelligence net. He is an organizer and
planner and best qualified for the supervision of intelligence nets and
inforzants, and intelligence operations in general.

3. He is a very personable individual and has the facility for
getting along with Latins. He is very well accepted even though he has
been here only a little over a year.

4. in Latin America because of his knowledge of Spanish. He
is also well qualified to operate in the China Theater in view of his
past experiences, although he has no knowledge of the language.

5. Subject makes frequent business trips to Mexico.

6. Subject has discussed plans for expanding his business into
South America.

7. Subject has five people working for him. (a) HYDRACID;
HYDRAVANIC; and the subject of TZP-4-269. He has also cultivated two
unwitting informants, one of whom is a fairly prominent Arnulfista and
the other is a socially prominent Panamanian and businessman on whom we
will submit biographical data at a future date. (b) None of the people are
paid. The subject of 1ZF-4-269 has been informed that we will defray any
expenses which he may have incidental to our operations. HYDPACID has
expressed a desire to have a savings or retirment fund cpened for him in
the United States. This we have agreed to do and estimate that the cost
will be about $100 to $150 per month.

10-8
SECRET
CLASSIFICATION

201 109.99
(708)

14-00000

Stonet

8. Lo.

9. In view of the fact that subject contacted the Home Office
prior to his departure from the United States, he is thoroughly cognizant
of the ultimate destination of his information.

10. Yes. In view of HYDRCL's experience in the intelligence field
he has been given the assignment of supervising and controlling the
activities of HYDRACID who has an excellent knowledge of the local situa-
tien but lacks experience as an intelligence operative. This also serves
to maintain EYDRACID's cover.

11. Through letter drop. In addition frequent personal contacts
take place between FYDRCL and the Chief of Station. These are usually at
night at the homes of the individuals concerned. Cover is provided in
that the Chief of Station and ETROL both have children attending the same
school and the wives are acquainted sccially.

12. Subject usually reports orally, accompanying his oral reports with
brief notes. He is training the subject of TZP-4-269 and ZY-RACID to re-
port in writing.

13. During the 14 years subject has been in Panama, he has been
principally concerned with establishing his own business. He has devoted
only a srail percentage of his time to our wrk to date, however, since
he is now better established and better oriented, it is contemplated that
he will become more active.

14. Contract with subject is oral. & written contract will be pre-
pared at the time he is placed on our payroll.

15. Yes. He is attempting a high-level penetration of the Partido
del Pueblo. At the present tize, a foreign national who has been approached
by HYDRACID is attempting to buy one of the Directors of the Partido del
Pueblo.

16. Subject is quite capable of using his own judgment on the sort
of work he is to do. Since his time has been limited in the past, he has
confined his activities to projects specifically requested by this Station.

PAYLENT

17. Subject is a volunteer informant who is rewarded for his services
by the occasional presentation of exchange commodities. Since subject does
not have U. S. Government Commissary privileges, purchases on his behalf
are rade by the Station. This results in approximately 60% reduction in the
cost of necessities purchased in this manner.

18. Ies. Salary arrangements have been discussed between HYDROL and
the Chief of Station. We both agree that no salary should be paid until such
time as he becomes more productive. It is contemplated that when we actually
-2-
SECRET
AF
201 30999

14-00000

SECRET
start peyeont the figure will be something less than $150.00 a month and it
will probably be placed into some sort of a savings account. This plan
may be placed into effect at any time.

19. Subject has been informed that we will defray all expenses
incurred by him on our behalf.

20. No cost of purchase of information is involved but he is author-
ized to engage in this practice.

WALUATION OF SUBJECT'S WORK

21. Subject appears to be a highly dependent individual. (a) The
accuracy of his reports have been good. (b) From a security angle he is
excellent.

22. In view of subject's previous intelligence background, it is
believed he is only suitable for semi-covert work.

23. Subject is unquestionably a high-level operative and quite
possibly might penetrate any of the local social or government circles,
but again his background from China is such that it would probably be in-
come to accomplish a penetration of any leftist organizations
or foreign intelligence agencies.
DOTA SECRET
10-20
-3-
TAPOK
201 30999

14-00000

3.3
YAGUAZA

Pamama
138550
PLCT 183
29 Har 48

20130999

14-00000
:
WICHTRICH, Alfonso Rudolph
م
Panama
IN 38550
PACY 188
29 Mar 48
201 30999

14-00000
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
:
Office Memorandum UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
TO : FBT
DATE: December 23, 1947
FROM : CSB
SUBJECT: WICHTRICH, Alfonso R.

Reference is made to your memorandum of October 31, 1947, wherein you
request that this office conduct a four way name check relative to the above-
entitled subject.

This is to advise that a four way check was instituted concerning the
subject, with the following results:

L-5 Nothing identifiable
L-3 No record
L-1 Nothing derogatory.

There is transmitted herewith a copy of a report obtained from the files
of Confidential Goverment agency 1-2 + 1 requested that this report be re-
turned to this office when it has served its purpose.

The above completes cur action in this matter unless advised to the con