14-00000
104-10171-10013 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

NO
Chief, Task Force W
TO:
Chief of Station, JM/AVE

CLASSICATUN
SECRET

FROM:
OTROSE/Operational-Transmittal of CA Reports
ACTION REQUNICO FUTERENCES
EXPAMENCS: UFGA 3787, 16 April 1568

PROCESSING
ACTION
R34
CAR YOUR MANG
For your information

Frenasitted horovich are CA reports, motors 134 through 149, and 156.
An Index is attached.
END OF DISPATCH
Attachments: (Herndth)
CLA-14 thru 149, 1 cs.
CL-156 (1 copy)
CAA Index, in duplioste
Distributions
3 - TF/M, w/atts. (4/4)

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

DATE DESPRICHED
16 Apr 62
APR 20 1962
DISPICY SYMAT AND JAMBOR
1931-3846/3
25-130-33

SECRET

1400000

- 137
CIA
12 April 1962

515-503

Chief, Task Force/M
Chief of Station, JHWAVE.
Operational/GIROGE
DIE, Santiago de Duba
ATTENTION REQUESTED: W/KUCAGE/NTURE. 06

1. On 9 April 1962, Jose Antonio Sacens (ca "Che"), born
11 April 193, Santiago de Cuba, Miami acress: c/o Elisa Saturni Casas,
1619 Meridian Ave., Apt. C-10 Miami Seach, telephone: JE 2-2641, vas
Intervieved.

2. Source said that during the revelutica he 'v's a member of the
DR in the University of liebena. After the revolution he went to the
University of Orinc, Santiago de Cuba, and eventually became the DRE
chief for the city. In regard to his former a association he had no
operational leads, claiming that all contact with PR members terminated
in 1959, and he knew no one who attained any stature in the Castro
Government.

3. As DRC chief for Santiago, the source claimed that he hal 50
members who he considered well organized and capable of any type of
action. He said that there were, and are, other nembers, but he docs
not consider then in the same category with the 50 who are organized into
cells. He said cach cell has nine men. There are four cells in the
University of Criente and two in the high school.

4. He said that he left Santiago in Harch 1962 and turned the DRE
over to his deputy. He then went to Habana and informed the DRE leader-
ship that the second in command had taken over and he was told that
llabana would initiate contact with the new leader. (Note: Since close
relations are maintained by the JRAVE Station and the DRE, no attempt
was made to press the source for naves and addresses, etc., as this in-
formation can be obtained in subsequent outside debriefings. The JHHAVS
Officer responsible for the DRE operational matters was informed of the
source's arrival and processing.)

5. Source said that at the time he left Santiago, the remnants of
the Catholic student organization was trying to make contact with the
DIE and he believes that by this time this contact has been made. He
said that the DRE member who was following this matter, and who would
follow through, was a blind person.

6. Listing the arms and supplies in the possession of the DRE in
Santiago, the source said that it has about 5-6 pounds of plastic remain-
ing out of a shipment of 20 pounds which was received fron the DRE in
Habana. He said the DRE in Santiago placei babs in places where the
explosion would not injure anyone. As far as arms are concerned the
source said that the Dực in Santiago has ten caliber pistols; five
38 caliber pistols; one M-3; and one Toray .

7. The source furnished the following KUTUBE-type information:

14-00000
1

СКА - 137
page 2

a. He said that his father is in Jail in Puerto Boniato,
and that in order to try and get hin free, the source went to see Kajor
Delarmino "Anibal" Castilla, the chief of training for the Palma Soriano
Military Dacaarnent, whom he knew fron their days in the Santiago High
School. Source made his plea an: "Anibal" told him that before he could
act upon it, he would have to talk to the source for five hours in order
to determine his political orientation. The source replied that he did
not come to talk politics but to picad for his father. "Anibal"
answered that he would think about it and call the source one vay or
another, but he never called. Source thought that this story adequate-
ly demonstrated the (Corrnnist) political orientation of "Anibal."

b. The brother of "Anibal" (pera 6a above) is "Bertico"
Castilla, first name possibly Alberto. He resigned from the army and
is now living in Santiago, but the source is not clear on "Bertico's"
political orientation.

c. Electra Fernandes, the wife of Mendez Coninche (the
Santiago G-2 chief), is no longer the civil head (confssionado) of
Santiago. She is now the president of the Federacion de Mujeres Cubanas.

d. The source has given a complete military nap of Oriente
Province to the DRE member he left in charge of Santiago DME (see para 4
above). Information is passed from Santiago to the DIE in Habena and
the latter, in turn, is to forward the information to the States.

c. Source said that his contacts who work in Ricaro report
that the Nicaro-Mayari Arriba area is restricted and that unknown types
of military installations are being constructed.

f. The foreign instructors in the University of Oriente con-
sist of Czechs and Chileans. The Czechs have started a new medical
school in the university and the Chileans have taken over the Business
Administration Courses.

Nelson L. RAYHOCK

14-00000
SECRET.
ATTACHONT TO: UPGA-3846 Dated 16 April 62
CKA 134: Arturo Ines Rodrigues: A 12 895 717 (SEE UFGA - 3866)
CKA 135: Jorge Pastorpoli Comes: A 12 895 206 (SEE UFGA - 3866/1)
CKA 136: Omelio Julian Garcia Consales: A 12 995 817 (SEE UFGA - 3866/2)
CKA 137: Jose Antonio Sadurni Casas: A 12 875 903 (SEE UFGA - 3866/3)
CKA 138: Raul Sanchez Rodrigues: A 12 895 874 (SEE UFGA - 3866/4)
CKA 139: Justino Pelayo Buncio Peres Pogueres: A 12 875 872 (SEE UFGA-3866/5)
CKA 140: Ramon Alonso: A 12 895 841 (SEE UFGA - 3866/6).
CKA 141: Kallio Alejandro Arrasate: A 12 995 866 (SEE UFGA - 3866/7)
CKA 142: Hector de la Pasarella Puentes: A 12 490 361 (SEE UFGA - 3866/8)
CKA 143: Manuel Clods-Castillo: A 12 395 666 (SEE UFGA-3866/9
CKA 144: Benigno Soriano-Hernandez: A 12 615 610 (SEE UFGA - 3866/10)
CLA 145: Antonio Tomas Gonzalez Crespo: A 12 875 929 (SEE UFGA - 3866/11
CKA 146: Alejandro Profirio Caracha Gonzales: A 12 895 939 (SEE UFGA - 3866/12)
CKA 147: Joaquin Antonio Jimenes Jimenes: A 12 875 931 (SEE UFGA - 3866/13)
CXA 148: Antonio C. Samper Marrero: A 12 903 024 (SEE UFGA - 3866/14)

CTA 149: Donald Arrowmith Boulets: A 12 903 013 (SEE UFGA - 3866/15)
CKA 156: Alberto Hernandez Dolst: A 12 895 969 (SEE UFGA - 3866/16)

SECRET
