104-10227-10271 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

In Reply. Please Refer to File No.
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
CONFIDENTIAL
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.
February 25, 1963

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES
INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

On February 21, 1963, a confidential informant,
who has furnished reliable information in the past, advised
that he had learned that Carlos Alejos, Guatemalan Ambassador
to the United States, had contacted Miguel Ydigoras-Fuentes
for the purpose of advising him that Jose Miro Cardona,
President of the Cuban Revolutionary Council, an organization
opposed to Fidel Castro, Cuban Prime Minister, had apologized
for not keeping an appointment he had been granted with
Ydigoras-Fuentes. Cardona stated that he had been extremely
impressed with what Ydigoras-Fuentes had done for Cuba and
told Alejos that those individuals who had said that Ydigoras-
Fuentes had to be removed had already been expelled from
Cardona's group. Ydigoras-Fuentes commented that the
meeting Cardona had missed was a meeting of all important
Cuban leaders who went to Guatemala to sign an agreement.
Alejos indicated that Cardona wished to see Ydigoras-Fuentes
in order to relieve any misunderstanding and Ydigoras-Fuentes
agreed to see Cardona anytime he would come to Guatemala.
He instructed Alejos to issue Cardona a visa at his request.

The position of Carlos Alejos was verified through
the "Diplomatic List" dated November, 1962, published by the
United States Department of State.

Miguel Ydigoras-Fuentes is the President of
Guatemala.

This document contains neither
recommendations nor conclusions of
the FBI. It is the property of
the FBI and is loaned to your agency;
it and its contents are not to be
distributed outside your agency.

COPY
CONFIDENTIAL / GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification
