14-00000
104-10332-10023

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

THE DIRECTOR OF GENERAL INTELLIGENCE
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

16 September 1998

Mr. John R. Tunheim
Chair, Assassination Records
Review Board
600 E Street, NW
Washington, DC 20530

Re: JFK Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

Dear Mr. Tunheim:

This will respond to your 14 September 1998 letter regarding
Central Intelligence Agency compliance with the "JFK Act."

I have no doubt whatsoever that the CIA has fully met its
obligations to locate, review, and release "assassination
records" as defined in the JFK Act. The Agency's 2 September
1998 Declaration of Compliance-signed, as you note, by CIA's
Director of Information Management, Edmund Cohen-confirms my
judgment. I have full confidence in the scope of the Agency's
searches as described in Mr. Cohen's recent declaration.

As Director of Information Management, Mr. Cohen is directly
responsible for CIA's records systems and for ensuring the
adequacy of CIA's search, review, and release of documents under
the JFK Act. Mr. Cohen signed the Agency's Declaration of
Compliance because he was the most senior Agency official with
direct personal knowledge that its statements were accurate and
complete. There was no more appropriate signatory.

In sum, I understand that the appropriate CIA staff officers
have worked diligently to locate and disclose to the JFK Board
all relevant records in the Agency's possession and that they do
not believe any other relevant records are being withheld from
the Board. Mr. Cohen's declaration confirms my understanding.

I trust that this will meet your requirements.

Sincerely,
George J. Tenet

14-00000
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 20505

Special Assistant/EXDIR

Mr. Cohen,

CIA SPECPAT COLLECTIO
RELEASE IN FULL
2000

Jim Oliver called and wanted me to
pass on the following message:

Talked Judge Tunheim and he is willing
to release the two letters (Cohen & Tenet)
and refrain from other derogatory
comments if the Carey declaration
is substantially like the ones Ed signed.

Michelle

He still would like you to give him
I call on 31805.

14-00000
Central Intelligence Agency

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS
RELEASE IN FULL
Washington, D. C. 20505
2000

DECLARATION OF DAVID W. CAREY

I, DAVID W. CAREY, hereby declare and say:

1. I presently serve as the Executive Director of the
of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA or Agency). I have
held the position of Executive Director since July of 1997
and have served with the CIA for over 29 years in a variety
of operational, staff, and management positions.

2. As the Executive Director I am responsible, on
behalf of the Director of Central Intelligence (DCI) and the
Deputy Director of Central Intelligence (DDCI), for the
overall daily management of the Central Intelligence Agency,
for strategic planning and coordination, and for the
development and execution of the Agency's annual program.
In order to carry out these responsibilities, I have been
delegated all authorities vested in the DCI and DDCI except
as prohibited by law or Agency regulation or policy.

3. The purpose of this declaration is to provide an
assurance that the Central Intelligence Agency: (1) has made
a diligent records search to locate and disclose to the JFK
Assassination Records Review Board (the Board) all records
in its possession relating to Lee Harvey Oswald and the
assassination of President Kennedy; and (2) is aware of no
other assassination-related records in its possession being
withheld from the Board. I make these and the following
statements (including those in the attachments by reference)
based upon my personal knowledge, information made available
to me in my official capacity, the advice of CIA's Office of
General Counsel, and the conclusions I reached in accordance
therewith.

4. With respect to the overall issues of search and
review, and as explained in the attachments or otherwise
included by reference, the CIA's Directorates of
Intelligence (DI), Operations (“DO”), Science and Technology
("DS&T"), and Administration ("DA") and the DCI Area
Information Review Officer have certified to me that their
respective offices or directorates have properly and fully
responded to requests from the Board. Accordingly, I
believe that the Central Intelligence Agency has worked
diligently with the Board to declassify, consistent with the
President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection
Act of 1992 (44 U.S.C. 2107) and other statutes,

14-00000

assassination-related records in its possession, in order to
make such records available to the public.

5. There are six attachments to this declaration,
which are incorporated by reference. Attachment I addresses
the universe and scope of documents that have been ther'
subject of CIA's review. Attachment II describes the
methodology and types of the searches conducted. Attachment
III describes, in general, the records declassified and
released (separate detailed indices will be provided when
documents are released to the National Archives and Records
Administration). Attachment IV addresses questions raised
by the Board regarding perceived gaps in our records,
including possible loss or destruction of records.
Attachment V discusses specific requests from the Board and
incorporates specific CIA responses by reference.. And
Attachment VI addresses commitments which this Agency makes
with regard to provision to the National Archives and
Records Administration of assassination-related documents,
including any documents which may be newly discovered or
created subsequent to the tenure of the Board.

6. Based upon the foregoing and the attachments
(Attachments I through VI, which are incorporated by
reference) I believe that the CIA is in full compliance with
the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992 (44 U.S.C. 2107).

I DECLARE UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY THAT THE FOREGOING AND
THE ATTACHMENTS (ATTACHMENTS I THROUGH VI, WHICH ARE
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE) ARE TRUE AND CORRECT.

Executed this 23rd day of September 1998.

DAVID W. CAREY
2

14-00000
UNCLASSIFIED

From the Desk of James R. Oliver
Chief, Historical Review Program

NOTE FOR: James R. Oliver@DA
FROM: James R. Oliver
OFFICE: OIM
DATE: 09/24/98 11:12:17 AM
SUBJECT: EXDIR Declaration Signature, 23 September 1998

Memorandum for the Record:

This is to confirm that I replaced the first page of the ExDir's signed JFK Declaration, dated 23
September, with letterhead stationery to assure that the statement was comparable to that signed
by Mr. Cohen, as earlier requested by the Board Chairman. The wording of the declaration was
unchanged; only the letterhead stationery was changed. I called Michelle in the EXDIR's Officer to
confirm that the Executive Director would have no problem with such a change (simply replacing
the first page). She called back, saying that she had asked Mr. Carey, and he had no problem with
this change.

Mr. Harrelson of this office will be hand carrying the EXDIR's declaration to the Board today. At the
same time, and in accordance with my agreement with Chairman Tunheim of yesterday, Mr.
Harrelson will be retrieving the earlier declaration signed by Mr. Cohen, the DCI letter of 16
September, both of which are being withdrawn. The Judge Tunheim also agreed yesterday that
since the EXDIR had agreed to sign the declaration that there will no longer be a need for the critical
language in their report on this issue.

James R. Oliver

CC: Edmund Cohen@DA
R. Bruce Burke@DCI
Sent on 24 September 1998 at 11:12:17 AM

UNCLASSIFIED

14-00000
Central Intelligence Agency

Declaration of EDMUND COHEN

I, Edmund Cohen, hereby declare and say:

1. I presently serve as the Director of Information
Management for the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA or
Agency). I have held this position since February 1994; I
have also held the position of Director of the Office of
Information Management since October 1997. I have served
with the CIA for over 30 years in a variety of intelligence,
legal, staff, and management positions.

2. As Director of Information Management, I am
responsible for providing oversight and direction to the
Agency's records and classification management activities,
and information declassification and release programs. I am
also responsible for the development and maintenance of
automated tools to support these activities. I oversee
classification and declassification policies, procedures,
and practices. I manage the Agency Archives and Records
Center, and serve as the CIA Archivist and the Agency
Information Review Officer. I coordinate the conduct of
special searches within the Agency and the release of
information uncovered in such searches. I am also the
Agency's official liaison with the National Archives and
Records Administration and its Office of the Federal
Register, with the Information Security Oversight Office,
and with any other entities on any matters within the
responsibility or authority of the Director of Information
Management.

3. I make the following statements based upon my
personal knowledge, information made available to me in my
official capacity, the advice of CIA's Office of General
Counsel, and the conclusions I reached in accordance
therewith.

14-00000

Declaration of EDMUND COHEN

4. The Central Intelligence Agency: (a) has made
diligent records searches to locate and disclose to the JFK
Assassination Records Review Board (the Board) all records
in its possession relating to Lee Harvey Oswald and the
assassination of President Kennedy; and (b) is aware of no
other assassination-related records in its possession being
withheld from the Board.

5. With respect to the overall issues of search and
review, and as explained in the attachments or otherwise
included by reference, the CIA's Directorates of
Intelligence (DI), Operations (DO), Science and Technology
(DS&T), and Administration (DA) and the DCI Area Information
Review Officer have certified to me that their respective
offices or directorates have properly and fully responded to
requests from the Board. In addition to these
certifications, I have had briefings on the principal.
searches conducted and have had all of my questions answered
to my satisfaction. Accordingly, I believe that the Central
Intelligence Agency has worked diligently with the Board to
locate and declassify, consistent with the President John F.
Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992, as
amended, reprinted at 44 U.S.C. 2107 note, and other
statutes, assassination-related records in its possession,
in order to make such records available to the public.

6. There are six attachments, numbered I through VI,
to this declaration, which I incorporate herein by
reference. Attachment I addresses the universe and scope of
documents that have been the subject of CIA's review.
Attachment II describes the methodology and types of the
searches conducted. Attachment III describes, in general,
the records declassified and released. Separate detailed
indices will be provided when documents are released to the
National Archives and Records Administration. Attachment IV
addresses questions raised by the Board regarding perceived
gaps in CIA's records, including possible loss or
destruction of records. Attachment V discusses specific
requests from the Board and incorporates specific CIA
responses by reference. Attachment VI addresses commitments
which this Agency makes with regard to provision to the
National Archives and Records Administration of
assassination-related documents, including any documents
which may be newly discovered or created subsequent to the
tenure of the Board.
2

14-00000

Declaration of EDMUND COHEN

7. Based upon the foregoing and Attachments I through
VI, I believe that the CIA is in full compliance with the
President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection
Act of 1992.

I DECLARE UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY THAT THE FOREGOING,
INCLUDING ATTACHMENTS I THROUGH VI, ARE TRUE AND CORRECT.

Executed this 2 day of September 1998.

Edmund Cohen
3

14-00000

Attachment I

14-00000

Attachment I

Universe and Scope of CIA Documents
Addressed Related to the JFK Assassination

Summary. This Attachment discusses CIA material
examined in order to fulfill the requirements of the JFK
Assassinations Records Collection Act of 1992 (JFK Act). It
addresses the types of CIA documents found in the records of
earlier investigations, including that of the House Select
Committee on Assassinations, and materials and files
recovered in response to searches conducted in 1992 and
thereafter. It discusses the process by which documents
became "assassination-related records."

Discussion. The Central Intelligence Agency has
provided large numbers of documents and materials over the
years in support of successive reviews and investigations
related to the Assassination of President John F. Kennedy.
We estimate that the equivalent of roughly 320,000 pages
comprise the "CIA collection" of documents associated with
prior assassination reviews, including duplicates. In
addition, we estimate that in responses to the JFK Act, CIA
has reviewed over 100,000 pages of documents from the
National Archives, the Ford, Johnson, and Kennedy
Presidential Libraries and miscellaneous papers from the
National Security Council, the President's Foreign
Intelligence Advisory Board (PFIAB), the Rockefeller
Commission on CIA Activities Within the United States, and
the Senate Select (Church) Committee to Study Governmental
Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities.

The documentation exists in many forms, from original
contemporaneous material, such as field reporting from
overseas or analytic reports, to material generated
specifically as an Agency response to investigation
questions. The largest "CIA collection," as such, is
associated with the records of the House Select Committee on

14-00000

Assassinations (HSCA). The HSCA brought together in one
place in 1978 the principal documents retrieved over the
course of years from earlier investigations, including the
Warren Commission, the Rockefeller Commission, and the
Church Committee.

The Warren Commission in 1963 and 1964 was the first
major review of the JFK Assassination. Existing records
suggest that CIA provided roughly 4,000 pages of
documentation to the Warren Commission review, plus
testimony by Richard Helms and John McCone. The Warren
Commission pursued matters related primarily to events and
actions directly associated with the assassination event,
including materials from CIA's Mexico City Station, which
were considered relevant because of a visit to Mexico City
by Lee Harvey Oswald shortly before the assassination.

The Rockefeller Commission in 1975 and Church Committee
investigation in 1975 and 1976 were focused on allegations
of wrongdoing by the CIA. Nonetheless, as a part of these
investigations they yielded information which, to many,
appeared to relate in some way to the assassination, such as
an operational capability or willingness to consider
assassination as an intelligence method.

From 1976 through 1979 the House Select Committee on
Assassinations (HSCA) pursued additional leads, generating
still further documentation. The HSCA ultimately brought
together within its broad scope of investigation many of the
documents from the Warren Commission, the Rockefeller
Commission and the Church Committee. This collection
ultimately became the "HSCA sequestered collection,” which
altogether contains an equivalent of over 300,000 pages, in
paper, photographs, tapes, and microfilm media, including
duplicates. Because the myriad conspiracy theories included
possible Soviet, Cuban, Mafia or right-wing American
involvement, the scope of the HSCA investigation included
anything or anyone that might appear to support those
theories, including historical institutional behavior
patterns. Further, although this sequestered collection was
considered to be CIA's, it contains documents from other
agencies, primarily the Federal Bureau of Investigation
(FBI) and over 30,000 pages of HSCA originated material.

¹ The HSCA sequestered collection reflects the major corpus of CIA material or
information reviewed by the House Select Committee on Assassinations (or to
which they had access) during the 1976-1979 time frame. The pulling together
of this collection was coordinated by the Committee and they defined what it was
to include. This Collection has been physically held by CIA since 1979,
although CIA was not authorized access until 1992, when permission was given by
Congress to review the material in preparation for responding to the JFK Act.
2

14-00000

The HSCA sequestered collection is contained in 64
boxes of multimedia material, including paper, photographs,
and microfilm which have been loosely organized into major
categories of information. Boxes 1 through 34 are mostly
material collected by the CIA's Directorate of Operations,
the FBI, and other Government agencies, including field
reporting and handwritten notes. They also include
newspaper articles, name traces performed in response to
requests by the HSCA staff, and copies of other documents
such as the CIA Inspector General's 1967 report on CIA plots
against Castro and Richard Helms' executive session
testimony before the HSCA.

Boxes 35 through 63 of this collection are largely
records of CIA's Legislative Counsel, Inspector General,
General Counsel, Office of Security, and Directorate of
Science and Technology, as well as internal records of the
HSCA staff. They consist of reports, memoranda,
transcripts, cables, letters, newspaper clippings,
photographs, and charts. Box 64 contains 72 reels of
microfilm-the equivalent of roughly 72 more boxes of paper
documents. This material includes the file which the
Directorate of Operations maintained on Lee Harvey Oswald
(the 201 file) as well as similar files on additional
individuals. Many of the microfilm documents duplicate
other documents in the other boxes.

While not a part of the sequestered collection, a
separate "Oswald 201 File" has served as a CIA repository
for JFK assassination-related material over the years and to
a large extent material in this file is duplicative of
material in the sequestered collection. Only a few
documents were in the file at the time of the assassination.
The bulk of the approximately 26,000 pages currently in this
file consists of documents collected immediately after the
assassination and during the Warren Commission
investigation. Included are a large number of third agency
documents, primarily from the FBI. Other major additions to
the Oswald 201 file include relevant Mexico City Station
files and material generated by various FOIA requests and
investigations, such as that of New Orleans District
Attorney, James Garrison.

Assassination-related materials beyond the sequestered
collection and the Oswald 201 file which have been located
since 1992 generally fall into three categories. First,
there are new documents which have been generated since
1978, such as defector reports that mention rumors or
perceptions of conspiracies or newspaper or other open
3

14-00000

source materials related to an individual associated with
the assassination. Second, in a number of cases targeted
areas of inquiry or more precise definitions of areas of
interest by the JFK Board have yielded more information and
added documents to the collection. And third, improved
search techniques have provided better access to those files
which are searchable electronically. Nonetheless, the
material located since 1992 is quite small when compared to
the material in the sequestered collection and the overall
set of material from CIA which has been designated as
"assassination records" by the JFK Board.

In accordance with the law, the Board has the authority
to designate records which it considers relevant to the
assassination as "Assassination Records." These documents
are then subject to review for declassification or, as
deemed appropriate by the Board, held for declassification
in the year 2017. The Board has designated the entire
sequestered collection as Assassination Records as well as
selected material generated in the course of searches
subsequent to 1992. The entire set of these documents is
the equivalent of roughly 320,000 pages, including
duplicates.
4

14-00000

Attachment II

14-00000

ATTACHMENT II.

Search Methodology and Types of Searches Conducted

Summary. This Attachment discusses the methodologies
used in conducting the searches, including what we know of
the searches which were conducted on behalf of the earlier
assassination investigations. It includes, in referenced
tabs, documentation of selected taskings. It discusses the
distributed nature of CIA's paper recordkeeping systems and
electronic databases and the custom keyword searches that
are used with electronic databases which CIA maintains.

Discussion. The collection of CIA materials contained
in the House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA)
"sequestered collection” has existed as a discrete body of
records since 1978. This material resulted from highly
labor intensive and systematic searches by individuals
familiar with the Agency's paper files and records systems
in use in the 1960s and 1970s. Today, the sequestered
collection comprises the great bulk of CIA-originated
documents which can be associated with the JFK Assassination
and related investigations.

For most of its history, the Agency has had a system of
records which has been shaped by the divergent requirements
of the directorates in accordance with the wide variance of
focus in their missions. These basic differences in the
missions of the directorates, as well as the compartmental-
ization-of-information procedures (the "need-to-know"
concept), have resulted in each directorate keeping its own
set of records in accordance with directorate-specific
guidelines. This applies equally to paper records as well
as to electronic databases.²

Since the late 1970s, the Agency has been in the
process of converting to electronic databases, which allow
for electronic searches for documents using keyword and

² Even within a single database, information may--in accordance with information
compartmentalization requirements based on the need-to-know principle--be stored
in separate files by several offices or divisions, each with its distinct
recordkeeping criteria and access requirements. In order for a search to be
thorough, a search for one term or a combination of terms must be conducted
across all such files.

14-00000

other indexing tools which provide much more expedited and
efficient searches. Because the most significant portion of
JFK assassination-related material was generated prior to
this conversion to electronic databases, searches of the
sequestered collection or other contemporaneous CIA records
have had to rely primarily upon labor intensive hand
searches.

Since 1992 and the passage of the JFK Act, CIA has, in
responding to the requests of the Board, had to devise
search methodologies and techniques to address both the hard
copy and electronic versions of our databases. With respect
to the hard copy material, Agency efforts have concentrated
on those component records most likely to yield
assassination-related documents. Short of a complete manual
review of all documents in the Agency, the techniques used
for searching hard copy materials include expert reviews of
file series and folder names, including associations with
known related topics, retrieving boxes of files from the
Agency's Archives and Records Center, and manually reviewing
those files identified as likely to contain the sought after
materials.

Electronic files searches can actually be more complex
than manual searches, in major part because of the number of
different electronic systems in use. The Directorate of
Operations' electronic databases, for instance, include most
cables since 1978 and they can be searched using single or
multiple search terms against the full text of these cables.
The Directorate of Intelligence's automated systems include
original source material used for analytic assessments as
well as the products themselves and can be searched through
a variety of electronic techniques. The DCI Area
(considered, for this purpose a directorate) maintains the
Executive Registry files which are not normally retrievable
through full text search, but by index searches. The
Directorate of Administration maintains a large and diverse
system of databases and files on employees and contractors
that includes data on security issues, medical records,
training, etc. The Directorate of Science and Technology
and its subordinate components maintain other electronic
databases unique to individual missions. Each of these
systems requires a unique set of access criteria and search
commands and must be searched by information management
experts of the respective directorates.

Where possible, automated systems were searched using
key words such as JFK, Kennedy, assassination, executive
action, Oswald, place names, and a large number of names,
crypts, or pseudonyms identifying individuals known to have
2

14-00000

been associated with countries, key installations,
organizations, or operations that fell within the period
deemed relevant to the history of the assassination.

The following categories are examples of the guidelines
for relevancy with which both manual and computerized
searches were conducted. They include, but are not limited
to, individuals, organizations, places, projects, and
subjects which are considered central to the Oswald/JFK
assassination history and the ensuing investigations.

A. JFK Assassination Investigations:

* Warren Commission, 1963-64
* James Garrison, New Orleans District Attorney, 1966-68
* Rockefeller Commission, 1975 (JFK assassination & CIA
anti-Cuban plots aspects only)
* Church Committee (Senate), 1975-76 (JFK assassination &
CIA anti-Cuban plots aspects only)
* House Select Committee On Assassinations (HSCA),
1976-79

B. Key Subjects:

* Moscow Station, Mexico City Station, and JMWAVE
Station, as they related to Oswald's activities or
to possible conspiracies.
* KGB interest in Oswald.
* CIA anti-Cuban operations 1960-64 if they involve
JFK figures or subjects; most US anti-Castro
activities in 1963 are considered relevant.
* Cuban exile anti-Castro activities, leaders, and
organizations, 1960-64, if they involve JFK figures
or subjects.
* Castro assassination activities (plans and attempts)
without limit on time frame.
* Mafia, if related to Castro, JFK, or New Orleans
during Oswald time frames.

C. Key Figures: Material with the following terms was
considered JFK assassination-relevant unless the
context is clearly not related or the information is
outside the appropriate time period:

* AMLASH
* AMMUG
* Maurice Bishop (any reference)
* Silvia, Duran
3

14-00000

* Richard Gibson and the Free Cuba Committee
* Howard Hunt
* Priscilla MacMillan Johnson
* Valeriy Kostikov
* Mr. & Mrs. George de Mohrenschildt
* Yuri Nosenko
* Michael & Ruth Paine
* David A. Phillips
* Richard Snyder
* Win Scott

Prior to enactment of the JFK Act, in early 1992, the
Chief of the CIA History Staff, through various manual
searches of shelf lists, located the “sequestered
collection" of the House Select Committee on Assassinations
(sixty-four record center size boxes). After obtaining the
permission of the Congress, his staff surveyed these and
other related holdings on the assassination. In addition,
the History Staff located sixteen boxes of Lee Harvey
Oswald's 201 file and a number of loose folders, mainly from
Mexico City Station records that had been collected for the
Warren Commission.

In October 1993, following enactment of the JFK Act but
prior to the President's appointment of the Board, CIA'S
Historical Review Group (HRG) requested the directorates to
conduct a name search on Lee Harvey Oswald, JFK
assassination, and any related documents (Tab 1). This
request resulted in a series of meetings and discussions
with various Agency components and Information Release
Officers. More than thirty-one additional boxes of
materials were sent to HRG for review. Included in this
material were nineteen boxes of JFK working files of Mr.
Russ Holmes, a CIA employee who for many years was the
Agency's focal point officer with responsibility for
responding to questions related to our assassinated-related
records. Also included were two boxes on Nosenko, seven
boxes of Latin America Division documents, and three boxes
from the Bay of Pigs project. Out of these thirty-one
additional boxes provided to the Board staff, approximately
twenty-two boxes of material were designated by the Board as
assassination records. The preponderant volume of these
records is duplicative of documents in the sequestered
collection.

In April 1995, after the Agency received the Board's
first formal request, and in anticipation of "what are
4

14-00000

likely to be many requests from the Board for information..."
the Agency Executive Director asked each directorate and the
DCI Administrative Officer to appoint a focal point officer
for the JFK Assassination review. (Tab 2)

In the spring and summer of 1997, the Agency arranged
for the Board staff to receive a series of briefings by
representatives of each directorate on the files kept within
the records systems of each directorate. These briefings
covered aspects of the records systems, such as how the
records are organized, maintained, searched and retrieved,
as well as how they had been previously searched for
assassination-related materials.

The Board staff requested a number of additional
searches, which have now been completed. These requests
were both formal and informal and resulted in responses to
the Board staff which included a wide range of additional
material, some of which was judged relevant to the history
of the assassination. This material includes the histories
of various CIA operations and Agency components, files on
specific individuals involved in either the Warren
Commission or in HSCA investigations, and the results of CIA
internal reviews of programs and operations. Although many
requests from the Board and responses from the Agency were
handled informally, the significant initial requests are
listed in the table in Attachment V.

Prompted in part by the surfacing of a small number of
new relevant documents, the Board staff requested CIA in the
summer of 1998 to: (a) perform an additional set of searches
on certain specific topics; and (b) issue an Agency-wide
notice reminding CIA employees of the requirements of the
JFK Act.

Specially tailored tasking was sent to the three
Directorate of Operations components deemed most likely to
possess records relevant to the JFK assassination of the
kind of concern to the Board (See Tab 3). Among other
considerations, this special tasking included a list of new
or revised search terms, a request for clarification on the
disposition of the James Angleton files, and the requirement
to focus on potential new information from the debriefing of
defectors in which any reference to Oswald or to the Kennedy
assassination occurs.

DCI Tenet issued an Agency-wide Employees Bulletin on
22 July 1998 directing all CIA personnel to "consider
documents in their possession or with which they are
5

14-00000

familiar that might have relevance to the Board's review..."
(ΕΒ ΟΙΜ 98-02-See Tab 4).

Finally, and in a separate tasking, all directorates
were asked to assure that searches undertaken were
sufficient to enable a directorate representative to provide
a certification of compliance with the JFK Act, and that the
DCI's Bulletin had been forwarded to all directorate
employees. (See Tab 5).
6

14-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR: DO/IRO
DI/IRO
DA/IRO
DS&T/IRO
FROM: John F. Pereira
CSI-0331/93
25 October 1993

Chief, Historical Review Group/CSI
SUBJECT: Request to Conduct Search for
JFK Assassination Records

1. In recent testimony before the HPSCI the Director
indicated that a continuing search for JFK assassination-
related documents was in progress. In order to assure that
there are no oversights in this regard, we are requesting
the following, by directorate:

DO & DI: A name search on Lee Harvey Oswald for the
period 1980 through 1993; a subject search on JFK
assassination (Kennedy assassination, etc.), same
period; all appropriate components be asked to forward
to us any documents related to the assassination that
were not provided earlier.

DA & DS&T: All appropriate components be asked to
forward to us any documents related to the
assassination that were not provided earlier; a file
search when an obvious need is recognized.

2. Information responsive to this request should be
forwarded to the Historical Review Group, 404 Ames Building.
Questions may be directed to Frank Most, 30146.

John F. Pereira
2

14-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY-

ER 95-8097
6 April 1995
DO/INS 95-069/1

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Administration
Deputy Director for Intelligence
Deputy Director for Operations
Deputy Director for Science and Technology
Administrative Officer, DCI

FROM: Executive Director

SUBJECT: Appointment of Directorate Focal Points
for JFK Assassination Board Requests

1. I would like each of you to appoint a focal point
officer for your Directorate who would be responsible for
responding to requests for information from the (President
Kennedy) Assassination Records Review Board.

2. The Agency has received the first (attached) of what
are likely to be many requests from the Board for information
related to the assassination of President Kennedy and to the
investigations into the assassination. Up to now, the Board
has focused on the "sequestered" records CIA had collected
for the House Assassination Committee's investigation and
documents that had been part of the Oswald 201 file. It is
expected that the new requests will require records searches
to be done for additional information.

3. The Historical Review Group (HRG) of the Center for
the Study of Intelligence (CSI), which has been the Agency's
principal liaison with the JFK Board, will continue in that
role. HRG will receive requests from the Board, and then
forward them to the Directorate focal points for action.
Responses from the Directorates will be coordinated by HRG,
which will make the responses available to the Board.

4. Please provide the name of your focal point officer to
John Pereira, Chief, HRG (x30373-secure) by 13 April.

Leo Hazlewood

Attachment

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY
3

14-00000

JUL 30

SECRET

ΟΙΜ 98-0081
30 July 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Counterintelligence Center, DO
Chief, Latin America Division, DO
Chief, CE Division, DO

FROM: Lee Strickland
Chief, Information Review Group
Office of Information Management.

SUBJECT: (U) New Search of CI Files for JFK
Assassination Records

REFERENCE: (AIUO) Bulletin OIM EB No. 02-98,
dated 22 July 1998

1. (U) The JFK Board has made a number of recent
specific directed requests to assure that the Agency has
complied fully with the requirements of the JFK Act. Among
these was a request for issuance of the Reference Employee
Bulletin, in which the DCI directed that employees leave "no
stone unturned" in assuring that relevant documents are
provided to the Commission.

2. (U) In part because relevant new documents have
surfaced within the past few months, the Board has also
requested specific focus on renewed searches of the Agency's
"counterintelligence files." The new documents have
surfaced due to a variety of reasons, including references
to assassination related personalities in recent defector
reports, records made available because of the break up of
the Soviet