14-00000
104-10234-10155
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

AMLASH/1 - Paris Station Aspest

Paris Station involvement with the ANLASH cass began in 1962, after AMLASH/L
cans to Paris after attending the Helsinki Youth Festival that year. In Helsinki,
AMLASH/1 was contested by UNRUMELE/? (an asset of the Paris Station who attended the
Festival for purposes of disruption) and by other KUBARK assets. It is not clear from
our files just when ANLASH/I was recruited" but it appears that he was recruited during
or shortly after the Festival.
In Paris he was in contest with Peter J. KIMINGHAM (probably in alias although
I know that AMLASH/L was at KIMINORAN's home upon socasion). In 1962 AMLASH/1 was
given training in explosives by OHMX (I believe) upon request of the Paris Station.
He appears to have returned to PBRUM in late 1962. It is not own if other Paris
Station perconaal were in contest with ANLASWI during that period.
APLASH/L next arrived in Paris on Ih September 1963, coming from the International
Games held in Porto Alegre, Brasil, where he was in contact with TYPIC officers.
At this point AMBFORT/L (now QUEPORT) was in contact with ANLASH/1.in Paris and AM/HIP/1
was another comme channel (the cas being med primarily by Hos.). The headquarters
TYPIC officer, ONTRICH (F), arrived in Paris on 3 October 1963 and picked up the contact
with AMLASH/1 which was being maintained by ANSFOR/L and MAK. The metings with
AMLASH/I took place in
a hom as best I remember. These discussions concerned
ANLASH/L'e plane to assiseinste AMPED and overthrow his regime.
werz
OSTRICH returned to Paris In late Osteber, after discussions at Headquarters
on the cars. ONTRION End DAIHD, who was tay in Paris at the time, wat with ANLASH/1
in late Ostober or early November. DAI HOID's participation was due to ANLASH/1 strong
desire to talk with some high-level ODYOKE official concerning Ma plans and to obtain
ODYONE blessing if possible. I an tot aware of exactly what happened at these
meetings but I received the impressionfon KYMMOHAN that such blessing was given.
MAST/1 returned to P on 27 Bovenber 1963. It was during this visit to Paris
AMLASH
-1

14-00000
2.
that STOCKFOOD But AS/And, presbly in alias but I do not know the
Getails. It was ales apparent by the time Anis left that he has start/s vas
working for KURARK and we haar that Hartly was aware to some extent of ANLASR/L
plans (Unser had been reord ted by KUBARK at that time). It was agreed
that AMLASH/I would and the address of task/13's parents for a/e lettere to
KUMARK (UNSKAPU/23 is wife of UNBNAFU/9).
ANLASH/1 nart arrived in Paris in late Kovanbar or early December 1964. AMSHIP/1
STOCKWOOD and ONTRICH (tay fren Headquarters) ant with Ma in Paris (this time in
a safe house of the Station, AMASA/1 left for PERUMEN fros Madrid on 20 February
1965. During this stay in Paris AKASH/1 set the following KUBARK staffers and
agents:
STOCEMOOD, CLOADER, RODAMOR
AWHIP/L, RISKAFT), UMSHAFU/S, UNSHAFT/13
•
You will recall that in December 1964 USHAFT/S had a nervous breakdown and
AFLASH/L played an importent part in convincing UNSHAY/S that he should agree to
hospitalisation. It was in this scancotion that LOADEN and RODANER NON ANLASH/1.
CLOADEN cbsequently ant with AKAS/ two or three times to received reports for
STOCEMOOD. These meetings were three meetings er in the home of UNSNAP/5.
During this stay, AKASH/A traveled to Madrid at least ome to met with ANBIDDY/2
and ANBANG/L. I am not aware of results of three meetings except that AFLASH/1 was
seolding the physical instrumente to carry out the plan to eliminate ANTHO.
There was to additional contest with ANLASH/L in Paris subsequent te February
1965 but the Station (CLOADEN and HERLIES) did have subsequent contact with USAPO/S,
UNSHAFU/9, ANLASH/2 and AHLASH/3. You will recall that thatht was ANLASH/3 who unde
the foliage pitch to MRRURES ea 6 y 1968. ANASH/2 and MLSH/) were both care
of A
ANLASH/1 plase.
.

14-00000
Povis Station personnel known to 13
Poter J. KANHAN
- not knoen vist alias used. Some meetings were held in
KYMINGHAN's home in 1962/63. It is not known if other staff
personel (other than OFFRICH) were mot than by ANLASH/L.
Jul K. STOCKFOOD
caliiss not known for sure but believe ho used Roberte",
AMHELP/1 kasar STOCEHOOD as onbassy officer and called in there,
• Known as Dick, free mans not used unless told to ANLASH/1
by UNSATIVE OF UNSNAPU/9.
• Peter N. GLOADEN
Miton P. RODAFOR
Dr. Lipsich
Wallace A. GROWERY
from
- nat AFLASH/L only once, when transporting UMSHAFT/5 to hospital.
Douma to all Ae Dr ......" (cant remember aka wed).
- cleared Dr. at American Hospital, Paris. ANLASH/1 met in
briefly when admitting UNSHAFU/S to hospital.
• wat in 1968 during explosives training in Paris. Details not

Agente (involved to home degree)
DASHAPO/S
Aurvasan
UNSHAPU
APLASE/?
ANLASH

Peter N. GIO ADEM
7 March 1966
:
1
