104-10124-10149 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FILE

MEMORANDUM FOR: Security Staff, Office of Logistics
FROM : Chief, TSD/Security
SUBJECT : Identi-kit SO 9-527
21 March 1960
EE 1077 2

1. Attached to this memorandum is a copy of an article appearing
in the February 1960, issue of "Science and Mechanics" magazine, Page 2
reflects a comment to the effect that the U. S. Intelligence under wrote
the development of the Identi-kit to the amount of $37,000.

2. TSD/18 under RD-177 and under the EAPWORT Program has invested
$82,531 into the Identi-kit. Chief Hugh C, MCDONALD, who is mentioned
in the article, Is a cleared TSD consultant. He was initially briefed by
Mr. ANDERSON, TSD/EB. The Agency sponsored Mr. MCDONALD's visit to
Washington and arranged his trip to Honolulu, Hawaii, all in connection
with the development of the Identi-kit. The Townsend Corporation, work-
ing with McDONAID, has built a number of these kits and will advise the
Agency of those sold to foreign powers, etc. Mr. Courtney OWENS, Sales
manager of Townsend Engineering Corporation, is a TSD/EB cleared source
and understands the Agency's interest in the Kit. Townsend has also opened
a school for Identi-kit users. Three persons from TSD have attended this
school.

3. The TSD project enginders are very dubious that MCDONALD disclosed
classified information to unauthorized persons and speak highly of him
They have especially noted his eagerness to assist us on various crash-type
projects of an unclassified nature.

4. Therefore, we have no desire to alienate his feelings. Nevertheless,
I would suggest that Mr. JONES, during his forthcoming visit to the West
Coast, interview Mr. MCDONALD to determine, if possible, the reason for
inclusion of U. S. Intelligence interest in the attached article, whether or
not CIA was mentioned during his interview with the author and to further
brief MCDONALD if necessary. Furthermore, the Identi-kit is expected to
receive considerable publicity as the sales program is stepped up

5. A copy of this memorandum is being forwarded to PSD (Attn: Robert
SWENDIMAN) to determine whether or not any other components of the Agency
are or have used MCDONALD (possibly contacts or SDD)

James P. O'CONNOR
Chief, TSD/Security

Distributions
Orig & 1 - Addressee Watt
- Prve. Sed. Div. (Survey Br.)
