104-10113-10249 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

AD Rune Fo. 9368
12 April 1963

SUBJECT: Bremmittal of (Blasemura) Ordinary Passport in Alias for Use by AEAL-1 - AB Case No. 6937

REFERENCE: HR Memorandum dated 5 April 1963, same subject

1. Transmitted herewith for use as outlined in Reference are the following two documents issued in alias for AEAL-1 Stangمص( Ordinary Passport No. 85701 and U.S. Migration and Naturalization Form 1-94 (stapled in the passport, page 9). Also furnished herewith is a travel itinerary on which AEAL-1 should be briefed before he applies for the Argentina visa in New York.

2. In keeping with arrangements made by TOD/AD, the Medical Office is preparing, for direct delivery to 1/4, the International Vaccination Certificate in alias to be used with the above documents. This certificate should be checked for accuracy as to place and date of issue. It is also understood that AEAL-1 will have received a bona fide smallpox vaccination prior to departing from the U.S.

3. TD/AD prepared the above Nicaragua passport on the strength of information that DIOGENESIS) could instruct an Argentine Consular post in the U.S. to place a visa in the passport. The document was prepared in one week from date of request because of operational urgency. The requirement specified use of a Central American passport to avoid ple placing a long, time-consuming simulated itinerary in the passport, it was given a recent issuance date, which necessitated issuance on the basis of one more issuance early one year earlier (the most recent issuance available). This short itinerary also would seem to make application at this time in the U.S. for an Argentina visa somewhat unusual. Since we are now informed that AEAL-1 is to obtain his Argentina visa without DIOGENESIS) assistance we wish to avoid the limitations of the documentation provided for this operation, and agreed to by Mr. Manini, matter of record. This confirms discussion with Mr? Fabrini. A telephone check with the Argentine Embassy by LI indicated that a Nicaraguan transient in the U.S. can obtain an Argentina visa in this country.

4. It is understood that the passport will be pocked for about six months, following which it is to be returned to AD/AB. Should further operational need exist for this document beyond that time, it must be borne in mind that the expiration date is 7 March 1959 and that some revalidations are needed from that time forward. Any such revalidations would have to be entered by TD/AD. Also, use of this passport for travel other than that originally intended (direct from U.S. to Argentina and back within six months) will require careful scrutiny by SSD/AD of the situation at the time of the intended future travel.

5. In accordance with verbal arrangements between Encore. Fabrini, please pass on to TD/AD details of AEAL-1's procurement of the Argentina visa and any other travel control events of significance in the use of this passport so that TD/AD may profit from the experience of this agent in the use of this alias document.

6. Any further questions concerning this case should be referred to the undersigned or to Miss Fina Japtine) on extension 1531.

Attachment: 1 Envelope (b/s)
Licaragua Passport,
Travel Itinerary

Distribution:
Official 61 - Arrance
1 - 03/13 (Info)

(Patrick J. Pales)
DD/23