104-10185-10105
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
COUNTRY Cuba
SUOJECT (fnu) RELOVA
DATE OF 1964
INFORM
PLACE Washington,
DATE ACQ August 1964
SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
REPORT NOCSCI-316/00704-64
DATE DISTR 1 September 1964
NO PAGES
REFERENCES
FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION SOURCE GRADINGS ASS DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS SENTATIVE
SOURCE A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban
Intelligence Service until April 1964

Headquarters Comments:

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

(fnu) RELOVA, pseudonym "Wilberto," is an officer of the
Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of
Intelligence - DGI) in Cuba. He resides at Calle 15 number,
2419, Reparto Juan Manuel Marquez, Palya de Santa Fe, Mariano,
Habana. 1,2,3,4,5,6
Headquarters Comments
1. An airline passenger manifest revealed that one Osvaldo
2
RELOVA Penichet, probably identical with the above Subject,
left Mexico for Habana on 8 July 1963 and was the holder
of Cuban passport number D/63/415.

24
An official Jamaican source in a report dated 16 October 1963,
stated that Osvaldo RELOVA, the First Secretary of the
Cuban Embassy in Canada, arrived in Kingston on 14 October 1963..
He was in Kingston for one week and lived at the Cuban
Consulate office. RELOVA was reportedly making an inspection
trip. RELOVA was born on 13 August 1930, in Habana. His
home address was given ás 15M 2419 Santa Fe, Habana. He
carried Cuban passport number D/63/415, issued in Habana
on 17 June 1963.

SECRET.
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

A former Cuban Intelligence officer who has been living in in the United
States since 1963 and whose reporting over the past nine months has
proven reliable, gave the following information on 21 July 1964
on Osvaldo RELOBA Penechet (presumably identical with RELOVA):

In early 1961, RELOBA was an administrator of a section
of the Consolidated Hardware Stores and annexes. In late
1961 he went to see source to get help with an investigation
on a Mr. BARRAL, Administrator of the Consolidated (sic).
RELOBA was requesting sources aid in the belief that source
was still working for G-2; source did not tell him otherwise.
RELOBA is a new Communist who wants to be more than MARX and
is trying to instruct everyone around him. Source said that
RELOBA was born about 1934, is 164 pounds, five feet nine
inches in height, has a medium thin build, a long face, and
a long thin neck. He has dark eyes, black hair, is partially
bald, and has a small, thin mustache.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEX
