104-10180-10042
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
PRIOR TO FILING

1.  Fill in Sect 2 en back Detach back Hap

    and forward: RID
2.  Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records

    significant achon taken or comments requir-

    ing, preservation

FROM
BID
RID/
EXT. 4039
CASO
TUBE GT-7
TO ACTION BRANCH
it tire no and hile shojyngre, pot proper,
insert proper lile no below and forward
document to BID'AN.
Pace a FILE NO
C
ROOM
DATE
RECEIVED FORWARDED
TO
NO
INITIALS
OFFICERS
INITIALS
3.  
Vasiries
4.  
Ennis
5.
6.
David
Bunke
8.  
9.  
10.

11.
Mani, Panch
12.

13.

14.

15

16.

17.
RID FI
TRACE
REQUEST
CATE MICROFILVIO
1970
5
q
س
Σ
8 May 1km
q
Ben your
LA COMPUTER
PROCESSED
See
attonhand shers
MICROFILMED
APR 23 1970
DOC. MICRO SER.
ABSTRACT
3
FILE TITLE
FILE NLIMBER
19.5.42
DOCUMENT DATE
DOCUMENT NUMBER
140070
SECRET
UNDA 34862
0.00
1401
ind
08465
14-00000
10
DEFO
FROM
DISPATCH
Chief, WH/COG
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR DIDEXING
XX
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
Chief of Statión, WH/MIAMI Chief, Domestic Operations AN JUDGE INDEXING
Chief of Rase, New York
BUCROFILAM
SURECT TYPIC/AMROSE/DONOPS
Current Analysis of Cuban Uy Mission and DGI Center in New York
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
Action Required:
FYI

1.  Transmitted herewith are one copy each for C/WH/COG and COS/WH/

    MIAMI of the April 1970 Cuban Official Presence Listing as prepared

    by the local, LNERCO Cuban Squad. The under-signed has added on the

    201 numbers, indicated CUIS affiliation, added two names, and deleted

    one. The departure dates för several CMUN personnel also are noted,

    The listing, thus, is valid as of 10 April.
2.  According to LNERGO, only two CMUN working wives are officially

    Carried on LNERGO records, Maria BERMUDEZ Garela, wife of Jose Raul)

    VIERA Linares (201-328953), and Consuelo HORTA Larrinaga, wife f

    Pablo DRAKE Capiro (201-815821). BERMUDEZ, because of the impending

    departure of the VIERAs on 14 April, can be deleted from the listing.

    Additionally, other CMUN wives work or have worked in the past on a

    sporadic basis (such as Teresita FERNANDEZ Arango, wife of NGI Center

    Chief Orlando PRENDES Gutierrez (201-330002). However, only BERMUDEZ

    and HORTA of late have been regular local employees.
3.  Addressces will note the preponderance of DGI personnel on

    the CMUN roster. Of the 18 (excluding Rolando PEREZ Alfonso) personnel

    on board as of 10 April, 12 are DGI. Interestingly enough, 6 non-DGI

    personnel is a higher number than has been the rule over the past

    several years; at one point there were only 3 non-DGI personnel,

    including the Ambassador/Permanent Representative. Of these, 12, two

    (DRAKE and CADALSO) are code clerks detailed to the DGI Center from the

    DSE. Two others (REYES Goicochea and SANTIAGO) are the "architect"

Attachment:
As stated Para 1

h/w.
::
Distribution:

2
Chief, WH/COG, w/att.h/w.

2
Chief of Station, MIAMI, w/att. h/w.

2
Chief, DO, w/o att.
AS COPY
CROSS REFERENCE TO
11200-9-52
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UNDA-4862
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
DATE
13 April 1970
HOS FILE NUMBER
14-5-42
14-00000
CLACATIO
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
SECRET
COSMOL ADUER
UNDA-4862
and the mason assigned here temporarily to work on the CMUN secure

reoms and security systems (see previous reporting for details).

Thu's, 8 personnel are left för espionage operating purposes.

Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez (20)-332665) probably serves now as the

Deputy co Center Chief PRINDES. Allowing for the impending departures

of Rolando PEREZ Alfonso, Jose Raul VIERA Linares, and Pedro Luis

PINERO Eirin, the DGI, Center will now consist of:
j

Orlando PRENDES Gutierrez

Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez

Orlando PEREIRA Gonzalez

Miguel Manuel SANTANA Fraiz

Justo Cesar GELABERT Martinez

Ruben Rafael FRANCO Gonzalez

Raul REYES Goicochea

Roberto SANTIAGO Humet

Pablo DRAKE Capiro

Rafael CADALSO. Bandomo
LA CO

PROCESSED

1.  As will be noted, the departure of Jorge REYES Vega (in March)

    and the impending departures of VIERA and PINERO will change the

    complexion of the DGI Center considerably. If they are not replaced

    for one reason or another (per other reporting), the DGI Center

    will have but four experienced and competent Case Officers at its

    disposal. Of these, PRENDES spends by far the bulk of his time inside

    the office pursuing his role of supervisor/manager. RODRIGUEZ is a

    handler: GELABERT and SANTANA are mainly concerned with operational

    Support tasks -- CELABERT is the Center's best counter-surveillant,

    and SANTANA is the technical "expert" of the Center. PEREIRA is a

    handler, but his abilities are rather limited in this regard, per

    Base and LNERGO information and observations. Should the departees

    not be replaced, the Center may be forced de facto into a cutback of

    operational activity.
2.  We shall watch with interest the behavior patterns of the

    DGI Center in the near future, in light of the above and in light of

    other recent reporting re the status of the DGI abroad.

Howard G. FIGALAN
FORM

4530
(4)1
MEVIOUS
CLASSIFICATIO

SECRET
CTIO
PAGE MO
2
t
14-00000
SECRET
4P da
Cuban Mission to the United Nations
6 East 67th Strest
New York, New York
April 6, 1970,
ALARCON QUESADA, RICARDO
FR
Position/201-
Pet.
19
Ambassador
Residence 347590 1175 York Ave., Apt. 6D, NYC
Phone
Dependents:
ALOM GIL, JULIO
:
Position (201-
Residence 851731)
Phone
Dependents
PL 2-0123
MARGARCIA PEREZ, wife;
(Reonded)
MARGARITA ALARCON, daughter;
BIANCA MAZA PEREZ, mother-in-law
17
First Secretary
Cuban Mission to the Un
33-4881st St., Apt. 10L (Rcaled)
593-0480
MARTINELA LARRALENDI RODES, wife,
born 4/10/36; LENA ROSA ALOM
LARRALELDI, daughter, born
11/22/64; LAURA ESTHER ALOM
ANTONIO 20-354048) LARRRAFIDI, daughter, born
Position -201-UNR
Residence
Phone
Dépendents
DRAKE CAPIRO, PABLO
detailed DGI-
Position
(201
Residence 815821)
Code clerk Phone
arried
october 69
Dependents
5/11/67
1.10
Adviser
83-10 35th Ave., Ant. 63,
Jackson Heights, IMY
TW 9-9282
ALICIA MATEOS DE SOUZAware:
ANA MARIA, daughter, born 2/7/54;
ALICIA ANTONIA, daughter, bern
6/23/51
19
Attache
Cuban Mission to the Wi
6 Ε. 67 Στ., NYC
UR1-5250
(R Codes)
CONSUELO HORTA LARRIAGA, wife
Hiwattle B
SECRET
CS COPY
PUTER
MICROFILMECESSED
APR 23 1970
DOC. MICRO. SER.
19-5.47
i
14-00000
SECRET
FRANCO GONZALEZ, RUBEN RAFAEL
Position 201-
DGI Residence 857465
Phone
GELABERT MARTEEZ, JUSTO
CESAR
DGI
Position (201-
Residence 839221
Phone
JIMENEZ PADRON, FLORENTINO
ER
Position
Résidence 1953)
Phone
Dependents
MORALES CARBALLO, PEDRO A.
Position
Residence (2015
Dependents 850951)
Phone
PEREIRA GONZALES, ORLANDO F.
DGI
Position
Residence (201-
(
Phone
Dependent 848605)
PERES ALFONSO, ROLANDO
Position
bhibe DGI- Residence
Codicclerk phone
Dependent,
201-
836757)
Wearing 0/14 11 Horn/1970 -
Pes
Pct.
19
Attache
370 E. 69 St., Apt. 5K
---
17
Attache
61-15 97th St.
Elmhurst, NY, Apt. 15M
699-5526
10
Actocine (chauffeur)
Cuban Mission to the UN
6 E. 67 St., NYC
UN 1-5250
(Reeded)
AGUEDA MARTINEZ GARCIA, wife,
born 4/15/37
17
Counsellor, CMUN
400 8. 55th St., Apt. 16
593-2431
(Readed)
MARTA ANGELINA DE LOS REYES, Wife,
born 2/2/41: ARIANELA MORALES DE
LOS REYES, daughter, born 11/10/64;
PEDRO CESAR MORALES DE LOS REYES,
son, born 7/31/69; ISABEL BERMUDEZ
DIEZ, born 4/18/07
19
First Secretary
Cuban Mission to the UN
6 . 67 St., NYC
UN 1-5250
/2 coded)
MARIA DE LOS ANGELES LOPEZ CANAS,
wire, 3/1/47
19
Attache
Cuban Mission to the UN
6 Ε. 67 S., HYC
UN 1-5250
(R COECD)
KARLA DE LAS MARTINEZ LARA, wife
-2-
SEURET
:
14-00000
PRINERO ETRIN, Pמים סתתני
SECRET
DOI Position (201-
Phone
liaving soon Dependent
524376)
PRENDES GUTIERREZ, ORLANDO
DGI
-
Position
Residence / 201-
Center Chief Pinone
Dependent
REYES GOICOCIDA, RAUL
Position
Pet.
19
Third Secretary
401 E. 74th St., Apt. אל, NYC
861-2468
JUANA CRUZ FERNANDES, wife
19
First Secretary
330002 201 E. 66th St., Apt. 7H, MYC
DCI Residence : 201-
HREYES
DELETE:
Phone
REYES VEGA, JORGE E.
DGI Position
859874)
Residence 201-
departed PCS on Phone
7 March 19707
816437)
249-0024
K
coded)
TERESTA FERNANDEZ ARANGO DE
PREIDES, wife
19
Attache
Cuban Mission to the UN
6 E. 67th St., NYC
1-5250 אש
20
Second Secretary
15 V. 72nd St., Apt. 17H, NYC
737-05
Depeniente RIFTA
✓ RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ, ROGELIO
Position
DGI Residence / 201-
ER
Phone
✓SANTANA PRAIZ, MIGUEL M.
6
Position
DGI Residence
ER
Phone
110
FTA REYES, daughter
332665 First Secretary
1201-
816439
SANTIAGO HUMET, ROBER 201-
Position
DCI Residence
Phone
Park Plaza Apartments
61-15 97th St., Elmhurst, NY,
Apt. 154
699-5526
1.9
Attache
345 E. 81st St., NYC, Apt. 5J
UN 1-5662
854875 Attache
Cuban Mission to the
6 E. 67 St., NYC
UN 1-5250
-3-
14-00000
VIERA LINARES, JOSE
DGI
Position (201-
Residence
Phone
328953)
Raving PCS Dependent's
14 April 19702ccc
Pet.
:
Counselor
305 8. 72nd St., Apt. 2E, NYC
AG 9-2077
(Bealed)
MARTA DERIJVIZ GARCIA, fe;
JULIO ANTONIO VIERA Y DENUDEZ,
son: ISABEL DEATRIZ VIETA y
BERMUDEZ, daughter.
ADD ON:
FERNANDEZ Padilla, Victoria
POSITION
RES IDENCE
PHONE
DEPENDENTS
(340661)
CADALSO Bandomo (n), Rafael
lebiled DGI
Code clerk
Arrived eatles
April 19700
POSITION
RESIDENCE
PHONE
DEPENDENTS
(201-
866098)
17
ATTACHE
220 E. 63rd St., Apt. 5 M, NYC
------
None
Attache
CMUN, 6 E. 67th St., NYC
UN 1-5250
(Reades)
NANCY GUIROLA MAZAURRIETA, wife;
RAFAEL CADALSO GUIROLA, son;
MARLEN CADALSO GUIROLA, daughter
-4-
14-5-47
14-00000
081
DATE
:
29 MAR-62
TO
: DIRECTOR
FROM
ACTION:
INFO
: MEXICO CITY.
IM 2
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
JO
SECRET
ROUTING
5
31
MAR. 29 05072 62
ROUTINE
IN 10495
TDCS-3/506, 346
RATA 1962
COSER.
RE PARA TWO PGT
SUPDATA LINLUCK FROM VICTOR MANUEL GUTIERREZ
SENT CONGRATULATIONS TO LINLUCK FOR HIS WORK AND OFFICIALLY
CONFIRMED FACT HE SHOULD CONTINUE HANDLE E'XCLUSIVELY PURCHASE
WEAPONS AND MILITARY EQUIPMENT BUT TO BE VERY CAREFUL ABOUT HIS
PERSONAL SECURITY. FILED 290005Z REPORT CLASS SECRET NOFORN
CONTINUED CONTROL HMM 6283. GUATEMALA/MEXICO SUBJECT VIEWS OF THE
PGT ON THE POLITICAL SITUATION IN GUATEMALA DO 24 MARCH 62 PADA
MEXICO, MEXICO CITY 24 MARCH 62 APR 2 PERSON (B) WITH GOOD
A

CONNECTIONS IN GUATEMALAN EXILE CIRCLES IN MEXICO.
INDEX
f
RIDES
IW COMMENT:
NO SEPARATE TABLE ISTRATION IS BEING MADE OF THIS. TOCS.
WH/REG
WH/3/G
RELEASING IWO:
JOHN
ELL
DATE DISTRIBUTED.
MAR 29 15032 62
SECRET
X
TDCS
PRECEDENCE"
ROUTINE
PRIORITY
BASED ON: Hмм 6283
LINLUCK
LIAISON 2676.2
35-9-9
Copy No.
DUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
14-00000
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY:
This material contains information effecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Esplonege Love, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs.
TH and M the transmission ne revolaties of which in any manner to as unauthorised person la probled by law,
SECRET
When Friled in)
COCLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS,
NOFORN/CONT
(2):
COUNTRY GUATEMALA/MEXICO
SUBJECT
PGT VIEWS ON THE ROUTFICAL SITUATION IN
"GUATEMALA
DATE OF
INFO.
24 MARCH 1962:
PLACE &
ROL
REPORT NO. TDCS-3/506, 346
DATE DISTR 29 MARCH 1962.
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
REFERENCES
IN 10495
6283
FIELD REPORT NO. Hмм
DATE ACO. MEXICO, MEXICO CITY. (24 MARCH 1962)
APPRAISAL
SOURCE
2
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
PERSON (B) WITH GOOD CONNECTIONS AMONG GUATEMALAN EXILES IN MEXICO.
1. VICTOR MANUEL GUTIERREZ, HEAD OF THE PARTIDO GUATEMALTE-CO
DEL TRABAJO (PGT/GUATEMALAN COMMUNIST PARTY) AN MEXICO, SAID ON
24 MARCH THAT THE POT IN GUATEMALA REGRETS THE WAY IN WHICH THE
GUERRILLA FIGHT HAS DEVELOPED THERE. ACCORDING TO THE PGT, THE
RESULTS OF THE GUERRILLA FIGHTING HAVE NOT BEEN SUCCESSFUL BECAUSE
THE 13 NOVEMBER GROUP (MEMBER OF THE 13 NOVEMBER 1960. ATTEMPT TO
OVERTHROW THE GUATEMALAN GOVERNMENT) HEADED BY MARCO ANTONIO
YON SOSA, IS NOT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE POLITICAL CONCEPTS OF THE
COMMUNIST STRUGGLE. THE POT ALSO REGRETS THAT THE COMMUNISTS AND
MEMBERS OF THE PARTIDO DE UNIDAD REVOLUCIONARIO (PUR-EXTREME
LEFTIST PARTY) HEADED BY CARLOS PAZ TEJADA WERE INTERCEPTED AND
SECRET
jner
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL
STATE ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR
18NS
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
35-9-8
14-00000
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
A
SECRET
(When Filled in)
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL
IN
TDCS-3/506,346
13495
PAGS
2
FORCED TO FIGHT WHEN CONDITIONS WERE NOT ADVANTAGEOUS FOR THEM.

9100
ACCORDING TO THE PGT THE RESULTS WERE DISASTROUS, WITH THE LOSS

OF "MIDDLE RANK COMMUNIST PARTY MEMBERS AND NATIONAL LEADERS."

THE PGT CONSIDERS IT A "MIRACLE" THAT PAZ TEJADA WAS ABLE TO ESCAPE.

HOWEVER, THE PGT STILL BELIEVES THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF MIGUEL

YDIGORAS FUENTES, PRESIDENT. OF GUATEMALA, WILL SOON FALL.

1.  THE MAIN HOPE OF THE PGT NOW HINGES ON THE ACTIONS OF THE

    GUERRILLA GROUP ORGANIZED AND ARMED IN MEXICO. (FIELD COMMENT:

    IT HAS BEEN REPORTED PREVIOUSLY THAT THE 13 NOVEMBER GROUP IN MEXICO

    HAD CROSSED THE MEXICAN/GUATEMALAN BORDER SUCCESSFULLY AND HAD

    ESTABLISHED A SECOND GUERRILLA FRONT.) THE PGT BELIEVES THAT IT

    SHOULD CONCERN ITSELF WITH THE SURVIVAL OF THIS GROUP "EVEN IF THE

    POLITICAL CRISIS SHOULD ELIMINATE YDIGORAS". IT BELIEVES THAT THIS

    GROUP SHOULD CONTINUE TO OPERATE IN THE MOUNTAINS IN ORDER TO

    ESTABLISH AND STABILIZE ANY DEMOCRATIC REGIME.
    H
    69. 6 I NOR

as
3. GUTIERREZ SAID THAT HE HAD MET WITH ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ

    LOPEZ, (THIRD SECRETARY OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN MEXICO CITY.

    RODRIGUEZ TOLD GUTIERREZ THAT "THE PERGON FROM CUBA WHO IS GOING TO

    TAKE OVER RELATIONS WITH GUATEMALA HERE IN MEXICO, STILL HAD NOT

    ARRIVED." RODRIGUEZ TOLD GUTIERREZ THAT HE PLANNED TO SEE MAJOR

    ALFONSO PRERA, A LEADER OF THE

    MARCH.
    NOVEMBER GROUP IN MEXICO, ON 24
    62

4.  FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FBI I&NS CINCARIB CINCLANT.

SECRET
(END OF MESSAGE)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NOFORN/CONTI JED CONTROL

29 62
35-948
14-00000
 Intal
:

SECRET
10/ NOTIFIED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
RET TO & INC
50
UNDER VES
CLASSIDY TO FIRE NO
TO NO
FILE BID
DESTROY
(

16
RI
PLAODICTION CLOUD,
ADVANCE
COPY
FIME
Atl
TO: UNIT
SUAZO

VR

FILE DAP DIY, CC, (/11/14 DC/WM/SA PIAN
T

R

SECRET 2323394

R

1
YO DIR CITE WAVE 5149

24128844
DYVOUR PERUNΞΗ ANKACE ZRKNICK
COPY
INDEXED AND CO
MATCHED
COPY
RICOPY

RI COPY
ITTAL
TG

شكمان
m

RECORD OR TYP

The fo

auth
dx
1

Many Bril

Sign-d:
R.O. #

Note: it
re
12:1
FORM
1-04 1389

CASCHETE

Perious
BLITIONS

LINKOE

RI COPY
الله
RI
COPY.
RI

CS COPY

#201-33.206.5
23 NOU 64
761-355759
RI COPY

COPY
(35)
14-00000
16
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
4
SECRET
VR
?
7.

دوره
٢٠٠
RE: 2323392
HEKI INFO CIR CITE WAVE SING

JAF DYVOUR PERUREN ANKOS ZRKNICK
REF MEX: 166 (~26758) -

1.  
    242004

WAVE TRACES REFLECT SUBJ REF LOCTICAL POGELIO RODRIGUEZ

LOPEZ, 231-332665. NO WAVE TRACES CHAI NUSIN.

2.  INDEX.
    SECRET
    * Stated that

    IDEN

wa

unquestionably Rogilio

RECOFAS OFFICER STAMP

Rodriguez López.

The
authori.
tor is

Diange
Si:

R.O.79

Un1
Note: It ast
SECRETPP-UP

LONILCE
יייי
201-332665
14-00000
PORN

8. ANALYST

SECRET
(Then Pilled In)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE
SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

1.  
    DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

RIFILE NO.

DISPATCH OR BOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.
4. DATE

7.  SOUICE CRYPTONYMS. DATE OF INFO. D. EVALUATION

DATE PRO
10. DISSEMINATED IN

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
18 CROSSREFERRED TO THIS PI
18. TRANSFERRED TO
RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION
RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ, 'ROGELIO
201-332665
201-067886

SEX M DOB ?
MEXI-02883

CIT?
P1
OCC
EDSEL USUALLY DRIVEN BY SUBJ, CUBAN

DIP AND SUSPECTED G-2 AGENT. MAR 62..
887

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
....

SECRET
17-40)
14-00000
10:07

13:25
17:10

17:34

e que as,
1365)

Trupt 1962.

22 Sept 1962)

FAVIOUIZ, de la Universidad Latinoamericana de La Habana, pre-

Junto a ROGLIEDRIGUEZ por el compañero VIDOPIA. ROGELIO

informo que hoy salio para Cuba en el-vuelo re ular de Cubana.

2015

17130PIA?

97 Sept 1962.
JERRIN, el portero de la Embajada Cubana, reservó pasaje para

SRUGSLIO RODRIGUEZ en el vuelo de mañana en Cubana de aviación.
DOLORES DE LAURA pidió a REGEXODRIGUEZ le traise a su

Tegreso de yata las "medidas de los sapatos de quien tu ya sa-

bes, porquz como le gustan mucho las botas de por ace, yo qui-
siera re/larle unas". Role cumplira el encap
14-00000
EMBAJADA DE CUE.-

LO. 30. Tel. 14-13-26.-
10 septiembre 62.-.

aka

Carale

2
om

2

1134.
146

Entrada 1535.- HF pregunta por VEGA y HD informa que--

X

no está; pregunta si quiere darle algún recado y HR dice que

sí, que le diga que le habló ALVAREZ (VICTOR MANUEL GUTIERREZ);

que el asunto quo le encargó el sábado, ya está resuelto, que

por favor le avise a Dn. ROGELIO, que éste no tenga pena, por

que su asunto ya está arregado.
HD: muy bien.- 1153.
-

7365

RODRIGUEZ hopes

M.-

8-9365
-7365
50-9-3-3
14-00000

Karren

Jock

Reports

Memorandum for the Record
Subject:
Rogel15 RODRIGUEZ Lopez

:
7 Sept 62

น

On 6 Sept 62, LITANIL-7 told LITAMIL 3

that Subject has arrived in Mexico. She added that she was told

not to put Subject on the Diplomatic List, orders from Cuba.

Subj arrived inMexico on 3 Sept 62 via.

Cubana Airlines (LIFIRE B/2)
-

FILE:

CKS

P

XXX Rogelio RODRIGUE
LOPEZ
P7365

:
14-00000
6 July 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR

:

FROM

:

SUEJECT
: Jose M

REFERENCE.
MEUBELLA SURTO

: Legal Assche Memorandum diten july 1962,

Same Subject

!

1.  Our Mexico City files contata no identifiable refercace to subject.

2.  Rozeli SORIY
    1965
    こんぺい
    Hecretary of the Cuban ambascy

    In Mexico Cay, contacted
    GOXERNANDE on 26
    1261 and

    arranged to meet within bruary 1962 Cabinó FERNANDEZ received

    an invitation from tize Cuban Embassy to attend a film showing at the Cuban Cul-
    tural Office, Toto 63. This lafomation is from a sensitive rellable scurce
    and should not be disseminated outside your organization.

    i

Orig Addressce
Liaison with LA
Rice-50-9-3-3 (Index names)

#5248
1-7365 365
14-00000

Date:
To:

From:

CONFIDENTIAL
July 2, 1962

Subject: JOSE MIGUEL AEREY BASURTO

This document is for the use of your
agency only and neither it norits
contents should be further distributed
without appropriate authorization.

unsun gos
A source has advised that captioned individual,

described as a Cuban national, is reportedly a resident of the

state of Nevada. He allegedly makes frequent trips to Mexico

from Nevada, and on occasions has traveled from Mexico City
to Cuba, returning to the United States via Mexico.

While in Mexico City, captioned individual reportedly

resides with Lic. GABINO FERNANDEZ, Secretaria de la Presidencia,
Berlin, Colonia Juarez, Mexico, DF. The source advised that
GABINO FERNANDEZ frequently visits Havana, having made as many
as eight to ten trips monthly.

This office would be most appreciative of any informa-
tion you may be able to furnish concerning the activities of
ABREU BASURTO and GABINO FERNANDEZ,

105-3013
Brit der Cubon Santosay
Fernan
50-9-3.3
7L6L
Ful
and aged 265: 61

Contacto!

En 26 Sep 61
to meet witht hìm.

CONFIDENTIAL
f
14-00000

EXCERPT

DBA-11277
28 May 1962
1

FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - CUBA
I. PERSONNEL ASSIGNED TO CUBAN EMBASSY, MEXICO CITY

EXCELSIOR Mexico City daily newspaper J, May 6, 1962, page 70.

contained a brief article entitled, "Airport," which stated in part
that ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ, Third Secretary of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico
City, returned to Havana, Cuba ..... on May 5, 1962.

RODRIGUEZ said that he will remain in his country for a year and will

serve the socialist government of Prime Minister FIDEL CASTRO.

.....

.....
EXCERPT

DBA-11277

28 May 1962
14-009100
DATE:

TO

CITE :
his ues til

:
E

JT J

J. VEGA X

J.
ES OF ON
CLEVCO NO.....

:
E

Σ

:
D

S OFPI

DIST:
CLENCO NO
RELENG :
IS FORBIDDEN ROSTE TAES
14-00000

LIFIRE/20

PAT

Koplio,

RODRIGUE E

20 MFY 61
14-00000
Al C. General de Brigain, Jose Shawz Huerta,
deto dal

Cosincs.

10
ayor residencial,
Informe so.

DE:

TEMA:

FECHA:

HOCHOS:
1.-

001699

C-4.

SALIDA DE UN CUPANO.

Mayo 7, 62.

En ol Vuelo 465 de la la. Cubana de Aviación,

que salis con destino a la Habana, Cuba el dia 4

del actual a las 15.00 horas, salió
Rogelio RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ con Pasuporte D/61/164,

de 19 años, soltere, cubano, con Visa Diplomática

ir 334 del 10/5/62 expedida en la liabana, Cuba.

DATOS OPERATIVOS.
Vigilancia Aereopuerto.

Respetuosamente.

Jefe del Grupo

L.Silveti.

Niw
P-7365
14-00000

SECRET

H- Coverd
Sony 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

1.  On 11 May 1962 BENADUM (P) reported that LITEMPO/1

    had said that Rogelio RODRIGUEZ left Mexico (PCS) on 4 May

    1962.

2.  Manuel E. VEGA Perez replaced Rogelio RODRIGUEZ in
    the Cuban Embassy, according to LITEMPO/1.

Distribution:

Orig Rogelio RODRIGUEZ P-

1 Manuel E. VEGA Perez P-

1-LITEMPO/Prod.

SECRET
P_7865
14-00000
Y

" May 62

27:27
Aduele
comento, pr
pesar de
L

i
rucho 2
dejó cul
oferta action
