104-10088-10070
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PEBORAT

SECRET
(
REPRODUCTION
CLANDESTINE SE
INSTRUCTION NO. 10.5
CSI NO. 10-5
SECURITY
Revised 17 July 1958

COVERT APPROVALS AND RELATED MATTERS
:
Reference: CSI-F No. 10-5, 17 July 1958

Rescission: CSI No. 10-5, 31 January 1955

CONTENTS

ة الدانة
PURPOSE
GENERAL.
INVESTIGATIONS.
OPERATIONAL APPROVALS
COVERT SECURITY APPROVALS
AND PROPRIETARY
Page
1
1
2
2

APPROVALS.3
COVERT SECURITY APPROVALS
FOR LIAISON WITH UNITED-
STATES OFFICIALS
SERVANTS OF AGENCO
EMPLOYEES...
1. PURPOSE
Page
EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
OF FOREIGN SERVICES..... 5
NOTIFICATION OF TERMINA-
TION OR DISCONTINUANCE
OF COVERT SECURITY AP-
PROVALS OR PROPRIETARY
APPROVALS....
SPECIAL SERVICES
DOUBLE AGENTS.
DEFECTION AND RECRUIT-
REPROD
MENT IN PLACE..
نستان
سال زرد

This instruction describes the functions of headquarters components with
regard to covert approvals and related matters which are the subject of
CSI-F No. 10-5,
2. GENERAL

5
6
6
6
a. The Chief, Counter Intelligence Staff, is delegated authority to act for the
Deputy Director (Plans) in the exercise of all functions which are the lat-
ter's responsibility with regard to the granting of Operational Approvals
and Provisional Operational Approvals.

b. The Director of Security has designated the Deputy Director for Investiga-
tions and Operational Support, Office of Security, to represent him in dis-
charging the functions which are reserved to him with regard to the granting
of Covert Security Approvals, Provisional Covert Security Approvals,
Proprietary Approvals, and Provisional Proprietary Approvais.

c. it is the basic intent of both components that sensitive operational data
shall remain within the custody and knowledge of the Clandestine Services,
and that sensitive security investigative data shall remain in the custody.
and knowledge of the Office of Security. It is recognized, however, that
such data may be necessary for proper performance by either component
and, consequently, where necessary, it shall be made available or shall be
discussed to the extent necessary.
REPRODUCTION
PRURIENTED
0004134

14-00000

CLANDESTINE SERVICES
INSTRUCTION NO. 10-5
SECRET
CSI NO. 10-5
SECURITY
✓ Revised 17 July 1958

3. INVESTIGATIONS

The function of performing all investigations in the United States in connec-
tion with approval matters, except for the check of certain Agency records,
is reserved to the Office of Security
4. OPERATIONAL APPROVALS

a. The assembly and analysis of all file material (including the files of the
Records Integration Division) in the Clandestine Services will be accom-
plished by professional personnel of the interested operating divisions
under the technical supervision of the Counter Intelligence Staff and sub-
ject to spot check by the Counter Intelligence Staff. Certification will be
made in each case by a responsible official of the requesting division that
the material furnished is complete and accurate.

b. The requesting division will assemble any biographical data; information
of investigative or security significance (such as additional names the
subject may have used); information relating to character, reputation,...
politics, or other activities, favorable and unfavorable information or
comments; background Information: PRQ Parps equivalent (in du-
plicate); and freld traces. Any informaton previously furnished by the
subject concerning himself (suchas personalhistory statement, records
of activities or employments, ments, memberships in organizations, etc.) will
be furnished verbation perfinent Information thus produced--includ-
ing that resulting from technical interrogations, personal observation,
field investigations, etc.--will be furnished to the Counter Intelligence
Staff for necessary transmission to the Office of Security. It is also nec-
essary to forward PRQ Part to the Counter Intelligence Staff before
an Operational Approval will be issued. The Counter Intelligence Staif
will not forward PRQ Part II to the Office of Security. In rare, compli-
cated, or sensitive cases the Office of Security, in coordination with the
Counter Intelligence Staff, may wish actually to review the material of
the Records Integration Division. A brief practical statement of the scope,
nature, and geographical area of the proposed usage of the subject will
be furnished to the Office of Security along with the other data.

c. The requester should also furnish to the Counter Intelligence Staff for
transmission to the Office of Security any suggestions regarding the in-
vestigation to be conducted and any particular points to be emphasized in
the investigation, such as special skills, abilities, and weaknesses of the
subject. The requester should also indicate what would be the most
plausible type of cover (i. e., general Government or commercial) to be
employed in the conduct of the investigation and whether the subject has
been briefed as to the fact of a pending investigation and, if not, why this
is not feasible.

d. Following appropriate investigation and analysis of a case, the Office of
Security will forward its recommendation to the Counter Intelligence
Staff, with the investigative data enclosed. Upon receipt of this material
2
SECRET
REPROTHOM
PROHIBITED
:
0004135
D
D
F

14-00000

CLANDESTINE SERVICES
INSTRUCTION NO. 10-5
SECRET
REPDADITION
CSI NO. 10-5
SECURITY
Revised 17 July 1958
.:
the Chief, Counter Intelligence Staff, or his designee, will, if the Office of
Security does not recommend against the use of the individual, determine
whether an Operational Approval should be granted and will notify the Of-
fice of Security of its decision. However, in the event the Office of Secu-
rity recommends against the use of an individual and the Clandestine
Services still desires, on a calculated risk basis, to use the individual,
the Counter Intelligence Staff will inform the Office of Security of this
fact. In this event, the Counter Intelligence Staff and the Security Support
Division will endeavor to arrive at an agreed position and, to this end,
the former will hold the granting of the Operational Approval in abeyance
until five days have elapsed after the Office of Security has been advised
of this intention. The Counter Intelligence Staff with motify the Office of
Security whenever it has:
(1) Granted an Operation
:
REP
AST or a Provisional Operational Approval.
(2) Cancelled an Operational Approval.

e. In Operational Approval case the Office of Security will forward investi-
gative reports, name check results, etc., to the Counter Intelligence Staff.
In extremely sensitive cases, however, particularly those in which the
security or good of the Agency as a whole is involved, the Office of Secu-
rity will not be obliged to furnish all investigative material. In such cases
the Office of Security will inform the Counter Intelligence Staff that such
material has been withheld and will, upon request, discuss the matter with
the Chief, Counter Intelligence Staff, or other appropriate official of the
Clandestine Services.

f. A Provisional Operational Approval may also be requested where circum-
stances warrant. A search of the indices of the Agency, including those
of the Office of Security, is a minimum requirement for issuance of a Pro-
visional Operational Approval.

g. Whenever interest in an individual under consideration for either an Oper-
ational Approval or a Provisional Operational Approval is terminated for
any reason, the requester, in order to prevent needless processing, will
notify the Counter Intelligence Staff promptly so that the latter may in turn
advise the Office of Security.
5. COVERT SECURITY APPROVALS AND PROPRIETARY APPROVALS

a. All background material will be assembled by the interested divisions and
will include any biographic data; information of an investigative or secu-
rity significance; information-relating to character, reputation, politics,
past employment, residences, and other activities; favorable and unfavor-
able information; PRQ Part I or its equivalent (in duplicate); and field
traces. This material is forwarded directly to the Office of Security la
its original form. (Traces need not be obtained from the Records Late-
gration Division; see paragraph 5.b., below.) A brief practical statement
of the scope, nature, and geographical area of use of the subject will also
REPRODUCTION
1
0004136

14-00000

CLANDESTINE SERVICES
INSTRUCTION NO. 10-5
SECRET
REPDADITION
PROPILULD
CSI NO. 10-5
SECURITY
Revised 17 July 1958

be furnished to the Office of Security. The requester should also furnish
to the Office of Security any suggestions regarding the investigation to be
conducted and any particular points to be emphasized in the investigation,
such as, special skills, abilities, and weaknesses of the subject. The re-
quester should also indicate what would be the most plausible type of cover
(1. e., Government or commercial) to be employed in the conduct of the
Investigation and whether the subject has been briefed as to the fact of a
pending investigation and, not, why this is not feasible.

b. In Covert Security Approval or Proprietary Approval cases, the files of the
✓ Records Integration Division will be searched by representatives of the
Office of Security. All files of the Records Integration Division, except
those portions containing specific sensitive operational data, will be made
available to the representatives of the Office of Security. In those in-
stances where a document of interest contains sensitive operational data,
designated professional personnel within the operating division will re-
view that portion of the information and furnish therefrom to the repre-
sentatives of the Office of Security all information of the nature described
in paragraph 5.a., above. The Office of Security will conduct appropriate
investigation in each case and will issue or deny Covert Security Approvals
and Proprietary Approvals, and Provisional Covert Security Approvals and
Provisional Proprietary Approvals.
"c. The Office of Security will retain the investigative flew in
Approval cases or Proprietary Approval cases, but will:
Approyancases,
D
Covert Security
(1) Make available to the Counter Intelligence Staff any significant infor-
mation in cases where
provals are granted. In
ert Security
Approvals of Proprietary Ap-
(2) Immediately call to the attention of the Counter Intelligence Staff any
new evidence in Covert Security Approval or Proprietary Approval
cases that reflects the subject's connection with a foreign government,
the Communist Party, or any front organization of the Communist
Party.

d. Where the Office of Security issues or denies a Covert Security Approval
or a Proprietary Approval, formal notification will be directed to the re-
quester. In the case of disapproval one copy of the security disapproval
will be forwarded to the Counter Intelligence Staff. Where a Covert Se-
curity Approval or Proprietary Approval is denied and the Clandestine
Services still desires to use the subject on a calculated risk basis, the Of-
fice of Security will, upon request, furnish to the Counter Intelligence Staff a
summary of the investigative data. Thereafter, the Counter Intelligence
Staff, the requester, and the Security Support Division will attempt to reach
an agreed position..

e.. A. Covert Security Approval or a Proprietary Approval may be preceded
by a Provisional Covert Security Approval or a Provisional Proprietary
Approval.
4
SECRET
REPRODICTION
PROHIBITED
i
:
0004137

14-00000.

CLANDESTINE SERVICES
INSTRUCTION NO. 10-5
SECRET
REPRODUCTION
ED
:
CSÍ NO. 10-5
SECURITY
09 September 1963

f. Unless otherwise designated by the Office of Security, investigative data
in either Operational Approval or Covert Security Approval cases involving
aliens may be shown to proper offices of the division and may, if deemed
necessary by the division, be forwarded to the field. The dispatch or cable
in such cases will be coordinated with the Counter Intelligence Staff and
the Office of Security. No investigative data will be transmitted or dis-
closed to other than Agency staff officials without the specific prior ap-
proval of the Office of Security. The need-to-know principle will be applied
strictly in such cases. No investigative data regarding United States cit-
izens will be transmitted to the field without the specific prior approval of
the Counter Intelligence Staff and the Director of Security and subsequent
to such approval without coordination with the Office of Security on the dis-
patch or cable involved.

6. COVERT SECURITY APPROVALS FOR LIAISON WITH UNITED STATES
OFFICIALS

Requests for Covert Security Approvals for Liaison with S officials, wheth-
er such officials are in the United States or abroad, will be transmitted directly
to the Office of Security. Each request shall be specifically indicated as a re-
quest for a Covert Security Approval for Liaison, The request shall be accom-
panied by all available biographic information, to include wherever possible in
cases of civilian employees of United States Government agencies the name,
date and place of birth, the employing agency, and the position and assignment
of the person involved. In cases involving military personnel the minimum bio-
graphic information required shall consist of the name, date and place of birth,
rank and serial number, and the parent service. In each case the details of the
liaison with the individual must be set forth.

7. SERVANTS OF AGENCY EMPLOYEES
11
Requests to headquarters for appropriate checks on domestic personnel em-
ployed in the homes of Agency employees overseas shall be forwarded by the
requester to the Office of Security accompanied by all available biographical
information and the results of overseas investigations.
.8. EMPLOYEES OF OTHER U.S. GOVERNMENT AGENCIES

Proper clearance of staff or contract employees (including indigenous em-
ployees) of other U.S. Government agencies for operational use includes
notification to and approval by the employee's parent agency in Washington.
Requests for clearance will be forwarded to the Chief, Counter Intelligence
Staff, Attention: CI/Liaison. Clearance will not be given until the approval
of the parent agency has been obtained. If, after such approval is obtained,
it is decided that the employee will not be used as requested, or upon termi-
nation of use, CI/ Lialson will be notified so that the employee's parent agency
may be advised.

9. EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS OF FOREIGN SERVICES

Requests for searches of the indices of other United States agencies or the
Office of Security, or investigation of employees
REPRODUCTION
MET
PROHIBITED
icials of foreign
0004138

14-00000
:
SECRET
*:
CLANDESTINE SERVICES
INSTRUCTION NO. 10-5
REFT
CSI NO. 10-5
SECURITY
19 September 1963

intelligence services with whom Agency employees maintain liaison, shall be
forwarded by the requester to the Counter Intelligence Staff for processing to
the Office of Security. Such requests shall be transmitted with complete
results of field traces, all available biographical information, and a state -
ment as to the service which the subject represents.

10. NOTIFICATION OF TERMINATION OR DISCONTINUANCE OF COVERT
SECURITY APPROVALS OR PROPRIETARY APPROVALS

The Office of Security shall be promptly advised by the requester of the dis-
continuance of interest in or termination of employmentor use of a person
on whom a Covert Security Approval Approval has been re-
quested or granted.
11. SPECIAL SERVICES

DDDD coprietary
a. Requests for Covert Name Checks and Special Inquiries will be transmitted
to the Office of Security through the Counter Intelligence Staff, Each re-
quest shall indicate the reason for the inquiry, shall specify the exact ac-
tion required, and shall contain all available background and/or biographical
information concerning the subject.

b. In the case of Special Inquiries, the request should also indicate what would
be the most plausible type of cover (i. e., general Government or com-
mercial) to be employed during the inquiry and any other information which
would provide guidance as to the conduct of the investigation.

12. DOUBLE AGENTS

The operational decision authorizing the doubling of an agent of a foreign
power will be coordinated with the Counter Intelligence Staff even though no
Operational Approval or Provisional Operational Approval is required.

13. DEFECTION AND RECRUITMENT IN PLACE

No attempt to defect or recruit in place (a) a member of the Communist Party
or (b) a government official of a denied area country shall be made in the
United States without prior coordination with the Counter Intelligence Staff
which will immediately inform the Director of Security and such other United
States agencies as may be appropriate.
D
D
D
Di
Richard Helms
Deputy Director (Plas
FROMIBUTED
5
SEC.CET
0001130

14-00000
DDO INSTRUCTION
NO. 50-10
SECRET
REPRODUCTION C
PROIN YED
DOI 50-10
OPERATIONS-GENERAL
4 September 1973
RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATIONAL USE OF CERTAIN
CATEGORIES OF INDIVIDUALS

Rescission: CSI 50-10, 13 July 1970
1. GENERAL

a. Elemental in the conduct of clandestine operations is the use of human
agents to accomplish the missions of the Operations Directorate. In gen-
eral, it is DDO policy to select agent assets with primary regard to the
agents' abilities, target access, and security, and with few restrictions as
to their origins, professions or status as members of particular groups. The
basic rule is that any consenting adult may be used by the Operations
Directorate. There are, however, certain sensitive categories of individuals
or groups whose operational use by the Operations Directorate is prohibited
or in some way restricted for reasons not necessarily related to security
considerations.

b. These prohibitions or restrictions stem from one of the following:
(1) The Agency has been directed by U.S. Governmental authority to
restrict or avoid the operational use of a particular category of in-
dividuals.

ecia
(2) The Agency has entered into a restrictive agreement with an
organization, government, corporation, or official responsible for a
category
of individuals do
(3) The Director or the Deputy Director for Operations has imposed
restrictions on the operational use of a certain category of individuals
due to the extreme risk or sensitivity of such exploitation.
2. PURPOSE

The purpose of this instruction is to set forth the prohibitions and policy
restrictions (as distinguished from security restrictions) which currently per-
tain to the operational use of various categories of individuals, together with
the special approval procedures to be followed in certain cases. Where ap-
propriate, reference has been made to another publication, which provides
more detailed guidance than has been attempted in this instruction. The
special approval procedures set forth in this instruction do not supersede or
alter in any way the requirements for covert approvals contained in DOI
and DOI-F 10-5.
SECRET
PANIED
E-2 IMPDET
0004140

14-00000
D
SECRET
REPPOTION
DDO INSTRUCTION
NO. 50-10
3. DEFINITIONS
C
DOI 50-10
OPERATIONS-GENERAL
4 September 1973

Within the context of this instruction, the definitions listed below will apply.
Special note must be taken of the fact that the key term "operationał use"
employed throughout this instruction has been defined in the most succinct
manner consistent with clarity. It has not been feasible, however, to cover in
a definition the entire scope of possible variations in operational circumstances.
which may be encountered in DDO activities. The definition of "operational
use" is intended to provide guidance for the majority of cases, and must be
employed with responsible operational judgment. Issues involving a deter-
mination of "operational use" which cannot be resolved with reasonable as-
surance by the responsible operating components will be referred to the
Deputy Director for Operations for decision.

a. Operational Use
Operational use is interpreted to mean the recruitment, utilization, or train-
ing of any individual or group for DDO purposes on either a witting or
unwitting basis by or on the behalf of an element of the Operations Direc-
torate. Utilization is made of an individual or group whenever that in-
dividual or group, responding to the direction or solicitation of a DDO
element, provides information, performs serviees, provides cover, or supplies
financial, material, or other support necessary for the accomplishment of
DDO operational objectives either directly or indirectly, to or for an ele-
ment of the Operations Directorate.

b. DDO Element
Any person or group who or which is responsible to, owned or controlled
either directly or indirectly by the Operations Directorate. Included under
this definition are employees or members of Agency proprietary mech-
anisms.

c. Operational Contact
Any association having as its purpose the initiation or furtherance of DDO
operations.

4. RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATIONAL USE

a. Restrictions on the operational use of individuals or groups are of four types
and cover twenty five separate categories as outlined below and as described
in greater detail in paragraphs 5 through 8 of this instruction:
(1) Operational Use is Prohibited (see paragraph 5):
(a) Members and trainees of ACTION; 99
(b) Fulbright grantees;
99
2
SECRET
REPRODUCTION
D
0004141

14-00000

C
DDO INSTRUCTION
NO. 50-10
SECRET
REPROPNICTION
DOI 50-10
OPERATIONS-GENERAL
4 September 1973
(c) Officials or employees of the International Association for Cultural
Freedom;
22
(d) Officials, employees, or grantees of the Ford, Rockefeller and 99
Carnegie Foundations;
(e) Employees of U.S. private detective investigative agencies. 399
(2) Operational Use Requires Special Extra-Agency Concurrence (see
paragraph 6): AND APPROVAL OF SA/ADDO,
(a) Employees of other U.S. Government agencies;
(b) DDO agents or assets in the United States;
(c) Agents and human sources of foreign intelligence registered by
other U.S. agencies;
(d) Citizens (or persons documented as citizens) of Australia, Canada, 99
the United Kingdom (including its overseas dependent territories)
and New Zealand;
(e) Citizens of Norway, West Germany and The Netherlands;
(f) Merchant seamen on ships of certain countries.
(3) Operational Use Requires Special Approval by the DDO (see para-
graph 7(اجو
(a) Publishers, producers, journalists or employees of public infor-
mation media,
(b) CARE employees;
(c) Individuals engaged in public relations activities;
(d) Officials, representatives, or employees of Communist countries
in the United States;
.:
(e) Foreign delegates or employees of the United Nations assigned
in the U.S. and U.S. citizen delegates or employees wherever
assigned;
(f) Staff members or officials of Red Cross societies;
(g) Officials of the Vatican State;
(h) U.S. Government-funded professors, lecturers, students or grantees;
(i). Members of educational or private voluntary organizations;
(j) Officials or employees of the African-American Institute;
(k) Volunteers to America. J
(4) Operational Use Requires Approval by Chief of Area Division (see
paragraph 8):
(a) Citizens or alien residents of the U.S. in denied areas;
(b) Non-U.S. citizen delegates or employees of United Nations or-
ganizations not assigned in the U.S.;
(c) Members of the academic community.
b. Operational use of an individual who comes under more than one type of
restriction will be controlled by the highest type of restriction applicable
in his particular case.
PEPECRET
PLANNED
99
0004142
Rs

14-00000

DDO INSTRUCTION
ΝΟ. 50-10
SECRET
REPRODUCTION
Ple
5. OPERATIONAL USE PROHIBITED
HIBITED
a. Members and Trainees of ACTION
C
DOI 50-10
OPERATIONS-GENERAL
4 September 1973
99
(1) It is Agency policy that members and/trainees of ACTION will not be
used in any capacity, with or without remuneration, by the Agency
or by organizations under its jurisdiction. (The term "members of AC-99
TION will be understood to mean anyone employed by or associated
with ACTION except trainees.)99
99
(2) It is Agency policy that former members of ACTION may be em-
ployed or used by the Agency or by organizations under its jurisdiction
only in accordance with the following:
99
(a) Except as stated in (b) below, a former member of ACTION
may be employed or used operationally by any element of the
Agency only if a period of five full years has elapsed since his
separation from ACTION. 99
(b) An Agency-controlled organization may hire a former member of
99 ACTION but only for duties related to the overt purposes of such
organization, if a period of at least twenty-four months has elapsed
since his separation from ACTION 99
११
(c) The employment or use of a former member of ACTION under
the provisions of subparagraph (a) or (b) above must have the
specific prior approval of the Deputy Director for Operations.
(3) Former trainees whose ACTION service included duty for training over-
seas are subject to the rules governing employment or use of former
99 members of ACTION (subparagraph (2) above). Former trainees who
did not serve at any time as members of ACTION and whose ACTION 25
service did not include duty or training overseas may be employed or
used operationally by DDO elements provided the specific prior ap-
proval of the Deputy Director for Operations is obtained.
The Deputy Director
99
(4) A former member or trainee of ACTION whose employment or use
:
is permitted by subparagraph (2) or (3) above may not be assigned
to or used in a country for which he had been trained or to which
he had been assigned while with ACTION
ACTION
بوع
(5) Information may be received by the Domestic Collection Division
from private corporations and other organizations employing former
SACTION personnel, notwithstanding the fact that the information may
originate with former ACTION personnel. However, any direct brief-
ing or debriefing of or contact with former members or trainees of
99 ACTION is subject to the following:
(a) The specific prior approval of the Deputy Director for Operations
must be obtained.
4
SECRET
"
0004143
(23/RS

14-00000

SECRET
REPRODUCTION
DOI 50-10
DDO INSTRUCTION
NO. 50-10
OPERATIONS-GENERAL
99
4 September 1973
(b) If the individual is a former member of ACTION or a former
৭৭ trainee whose ACTION service included duty or training over-
seas, five years must have elapsed since his separation from
SACTION
99
Σε
If contact with a former ACTION member or a former trainee whose
99 ACTION service included duty for training overseas should be un-
avoidable during the required five year waiting period, the Deputy
Director for Operations may request an exception from the Director
of Central Intelligence. Among the possible reasons for such unavoid-
able contact would be the designation of a former member or trainee
as the liaison officer to the Domestic Collection Division.
99
b. Fulbright Grantees
99
DDO policy prohibits the operational use of individuals who are receiving
99 U.S. Government support under certain provisions (see below) of the
Mutual Educational and. Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, as amended,
9 commonly known as the Fulbright-Hays Act. Falling under this prohibi-
tion are areſteachers, research scholars, lecturers and students (including stu-99
dent artists and student musicians who have been selected to receive
99 scholarships or grants by the Board of Foreign Scholarships appointed
by the President of the United States. Operational use of such individuals
is prohibited only during the period when they are participating in the
99 Seducational and cultural exchange program. This prohibition specifically
does not apply to the several other, categories of grantees supported by
other provisions of the Fulbright-Hays Act such as artists, athletes, leaders, 99
specialists or participants at international trade fairs or expositions who
do not come under the aegis of the President's Board of Foreign Scholar- 99
ships (see 7.j., below).
99
c. Officials or Employees of the International Association for Cultural Freedom
DDO policy prohibits the operational use of the officials or employees
of the International Association for Cultural Freedom Contacts with such
individuals which DDO officers are obliged to make in their cover ca-
pacities must be limited to their cover assignments.
d. Officials, Employees, or Grantees of the Ford, Rockefeller and Carnegie
Foundatiors
११
DDO policy prohibits the operational use of grantees of the Ford Founda 29
tion, the Rockefeller Foundation or the Carnegie Foundation for of other
persons actively participating in programs, which are wholly sponsored
and controlled by any of these foundations Additionally, there will be
no operational use made of the officials or employees of these organiza
tions. In general, however, there is no restriction on nonoperational con
tacts or consultations with such individuals.
REP
5
SECRET
PROCED
0004144
३५
eps

14-00000
SECRET
1:
REPRODUCTION
DDO INSTRUCTION
NO. 50-10
DOI 50-10
OPERATIONS-GENERAL
99
4 September 1973
e. Employees of U.S. Private Detective Investigative Agencies
DDO policy prohibits the operational use either in the United States
or overseas of the employees of any U.S.-owned or controlled private 99
detective investigative agency. This policy does not apply to operational
use of employees of organizations which are engaged strictly in commercial
Tor credit investigations. 99
399
6. EXTRA-AGENCY CONCURRENCE REQUIRED
a. Employees of Other U.S. Government Agencies
Approval for the operational use of staff or contract (including foreign)
employees of other U.S. Government agencies encies will will be granted only in
cases where the the employee's parent agency in Washington has been notified
of and has approved of the intended operational use in accordance with
the provisions of DOI 10-5.
:
99
b. DDO Agents or Assets in the United States
99
In accordance with the agreement existing between the Federal Bureau
of Investigation and this Agency, the restrictions listed below apply to
[the operational activity of the Operations Directorate conducted in the 99
United States. Coordination with the FBI of appropriate information on
DDO operational activities in the United States is the responsibility of
the Chief, Liaison Group, Operations Staff.
(1) All investigations by this Agency of foreign officials in the United 99
States require the prior concurrence of the FBI In this context, the
term "investigation" means systematic and direct inquiries or pro-99
cedures (such as physical or technical surveillances or neighborhood
inquiries aimed at developing information concerning an individual's
activities or background; "investigation" does not include the ac-
ceptance or the development of information through social contacts
or contacts normally made by Agency officials in discharging their
cover functions.
(2) Any approach in the United States by a DDO element for recruit- 29
ment of any foreign official or of any visitor from a Communist country
requires the prior concurrence of the FBI.
(3) Any planned meeting in the United States for assessment and social
development between a DDO element and a foreign official of known
or presumed interest to the FBI or between a DDO element and an
official or visitor from a Communist country requires that prior noti-
fication be provided to the FBI
29
(4) Whenever domestic DDO Coperations involve matters pertaining to
the national security of the United States appropriate identification
of persons engaged in the operations in the United States will be
C
SECRET
TON
PROLO
0004145
16
R

14-00000

DDO INSTRUCTION
NO. 50-10
SECRET
:
REPRODUTION
99
انان
DOI 50-10
OPERATIONS-GENERAL
4 September 1973
provided to the FBI. In accordance with this policy, the following
categories of DDO assets will be identified to the FBI: DDO per- ε
sonnel, agents of the Operations Directorate who are either U.S. citizens
or alien residents, and foreign agents of the Operations Directorate
recruited abroad who come to the United States for operational
purposes.
c. Agents and Human Sources of Foreign Intelligence Registered by Other 9
U.S. Agencies
99
The Interagency Source Register (ISR) has been established at head-
quarters to provide for United States Intelligence Board (USIB) agencies
Ca centralized record of agents and human sources of foreign intelligence]
A principal purpose of the ISR is to register primacy of interest and
prevent multiple recruitment or unintentional, duplicate operational use
of such agents and_human sources It is USIB policy that no individual
registered in the ISR by one USIB agency will be used for operational pur-
poses by any other USIB agency without the specific prior approval of the
Lagency having primacy of interest! If a DDO element desires to arrange the
99 Etransfer or joint operational use of a registered individual, the ISR will con-
tact the agency having primacy of interest to determine whether there is a
willingness to discuss this matter.
d. Citizens (or Persons Documented as Citizens) of Australia, Canada, the 99
United Kingdom (including its Overseas Dependent Territories) and
New Zealand
95
99
(1) The operational use of citizens of the above-named countries (includ-
ing the overseas dependencies of the United Kingdom) is restricted
by agreements with the intelligence or security authorities of such ११
countries, which require the prior approval of the appropriate liaison
authority. Such approval will be obtained at the earliest feasible stage
of development through the European Division (in the case of citizens
of Canada or the United Kingdom), or through the East Asia Division 99
(in the case of Australian or New Zealand citizens
(2) The above restriction also governs the use of false documentation
representing DDO staff or agent personnel as citizens of the above.
named countries. Approval for the use of such documentation will
be sought through the same channels as stated in subparagraph (1)
above.
29
(3) Authority to make operational use of the persons or documentation
described in the above subparagraphs without obtaining the prior
approval of the liaison authority concerned may be granted only
by the Deputy Director for Operations or by
CRET
SECRET
the Director.
0004146
Mes

14-00000
DDO INSTRUCTIONATIO
ΝΟ. 50-10
SECRET
PROMOTION
99
DOI 50-10:
OPERATIONS-GENERAL
4 September 1973
e. Citizens of Norway, West Germany and The Netherlands
The operational use of any citizen of Norway, West Germany or The 99
Maximax Netherlands is, under certain conditions, contingent on prior approval
only, siamen
of the national intelligence service concerned These countries are par-
ticularly sensitive in cases involving the operational use of their citizens 29
who are merchant seamen and who are serving on ships carrying their
inyolving the proposed operational use of a citizen Jof
one of these countries will will be reviewed by the Chief of the the European 93
only flags Each case
Division in the light of the agreements existing between this Agency and
the national intelligence service, concerned. After weighing all of the
equities, the Chief of the European] Division will decide whether approval
is required from the national intelligence service concerned. When