104-10216-10273 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

TO: Deputy Chief, WH/SA

INFO:

FROM: Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT: TYPIC/WHAPRON/ANTRUNK/Operational
ABSTRACT: ANTRUNK Progress Report for Period 1-30 November 1964

ACTION REQUIRED: FYI.

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES:

1. OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

A. Preparations were underway in early November to dispatch ANTRUNK-13 to Madrid in mid-November to cement the recruitment of ANTRUNK-19. These plans fell through when the Madrid Station notified Headquarters and WAVE that their workload would not allow sufficient case officer time to handle ANTRUNK-13 in Madrid at this time. FAVE agreed to postpone ANTRUNK-13's trip to Madrid several weeks until Madrid Station's workload abated somewhat.

B. The prospects of finalizing the recruitment of ANTRUNK-19 increased however with the receipt at WAVE of another open letter from ANTRUNK-19, this one mailed from Mexico City in mid-November. In ANTRUNK-19's first letter, mailed from Montreal in mid-October, he suggested using a friend in Mexico City as a cut-out to initiate a channel of communications between himself and ANTRUNK-13. In his second letter, ANTRUNK-19 stated that he had made the necessary arrangements with his friend in Mexico. Although WAVE, Headquarters and MEXI traces on ANTRUNK-19's friend, IDEN A, were fragmentary, Mexico Station stated that IDEN A was well-known to one of its PBRUMEN assets who vouched for IDEN A's loyalties. WAVE intends to send an innocuous letter to ANTRUNK-19 in ANTRUNK-13's handwriting to keep the channel with A-19 alive. ANTRUNK-19 appears eager to see ANTRUNK-13 again and has stated in both letters that he has considerable information to discuss in detail. It is well realized that this open letter channel is far from ideal but it is hoped that in early January 1965 ANTRUNK-13 can re-contact ANTRUNK-19 and provide him with a system of S/W

Attachment: USC
IDEN Sheet
Distribution:
3 - Addressee, w/att. USC

LASH-1 file

DATE TYPED: 10 Dec 64

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: UFGA-19045

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER: 19-6-84/3-1

SECRET

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET UFGA-19045

as well as debrief him thoroughly and levy PI and KHAPRON requirements upon him.

C. In mid-November after the postponement of ANTRUNK-13's Madrid trip, preparations began to launch Operation ANTRUNK X in early December. This operation would attempt to re-organize the ratline to and from Havana and the ANTRUNK infil area for the future use of infiltrated MHAPRON recruiters and other agent assets as necessary. Secondary objectives are to bring into the infil area a cache of weapons and explosives for ANTRUNK-10/AMLASH-1 and to teach a system of S/W to one or more assets in the area. The team is to be composed of the same four individuals who participated in Operation ANTRUNK IX in October 1964: AMAGREE-1, Team Leader; AMAKA-1, Radio Operator; and ANTRUNK-16 and -20, Guides. It was decided to shelve the V-20 as the Intermediate Craft (IC) for this opera- tion and substitute a 17' Johnson boat with twin 75 hp outboard motors which could maneuver through shallower water and which could be more easily camouflaged. The basic reason for this decision was the fact that December through February are the low-water months in the ANTRUNK operational area. During this shallow water season, the heavier, wider V-20 can only be used in the deeper and more heavily-guarded infiltration canals.

D. Through the combined efforts of AMICE-14, the ANTRUNK P/A, and AMAGREE-1 and AMAKA-1, four radio operator candidates, to be trained for future use in PM opera- tions, were recruited during the reporting period.

E. Recruiting for MHAPRON infiltration candidates con- tinued during the reporting period. One prospective infiltree was recruited during the month of November and the case officer was active in assessing and debrief- ing two other candidates. It is hoped that by March 1965 one or more of these candidates will be trained and pre- pared for infiltration for clandestine MHAPRON recruit- ing. In large measure this will depend upon the success of Operation ANTRUNK X in re-organizing the ratline to and from Havana.

F. S/W Message No. 13 was sent to ANTRUNK-11 in response to his Message No. 15 in which he stated that both OWVL receivers were now in his possession. WAVE Message No. 13 to AMTRUNK-11 gave directions for the disposition of the OWVL receivers and the activation of OWVL contact with both ANTRUNK-11 and ANTRUNK-10.

2. INTELLIGENCE REPORTING

None

3. OPERATIONAL EXPENDITURES

Salaries:
AMICE-14 $400.00
AMAGREE-1 300.00
AMAKA-1 250.00
ANTRUNK-13 300.00
ANTRUNK-16 225.00
ANTRUNK-20 200.00
$1,675.00

Mileage (AMICE-14 and AMAGREE-1): $202.40
Household Expenses: 61.97
GRAND TOTAL $1,939.37

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET UFGA-19045

4. PROJECTED PLANS

Primary tasks to be accomplished are the mounting of Operation ANTRUNK X in early December, the dispatching of ANTRUNK-13 to Madrid to finalize the recruitment of ANTRUNK-19, and the staging of another contingent of MHAPRON recruiters for infiltration in March 1965.

Andrew E. REUTERAN

IDEN A

Dr. Francisco BORGES
M. Escobedo No. 692-16
Mexico 5, D. F.

SECRET

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT TO UFGA-19045
IDEN Sheet
