2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SASO
ADDRESSEL CABLE SEL BELOW
DEFERREO

WL
ATHE O ALL OTHERS
CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, FI, E
POUCH FRAN 9, BONN 5, BRLN S, MUNI

MULTI-ADDRESSEE CABLE
65387

EULEN ZRPRIMA
99

PARI BRUS HAGU COPE STOC
OSLO
MADR

C.BLE SEC: (PLS POUCH CABLE TO FOLLOWING:) (WRENCH POUCH)
99.

FROB
BONN
HAMB
PRLN
VIE
ΒΙΩΝ
GNVA
CAIR
BEIR
TEHE
TELA
RIOD
SAOP
MEAIURID
SAGO
KONT
BUEN
CARA
LAPA
LIMA 19
QUIT
GUAT
SNTO
MELS
TOEY
HONG WAVE CHARC

HELS
LISB MILA
OTTA
TRIE
OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENT CA٢٠
Copy

14-00000
03.
INDIA INDEX
SECRET

EXT
DATE
NO INDEX
2
FILE IN CS FILE NO

TO
CABER SROERTARTAT
FROM DIRECTOR
CONF: SAS 8
INFO: DOP, NEVR
INFO
12-22
ROUTING
456
29 Nov 63 22 21

SIG CEN
TOUTOUTENE
85387A
CITE CIR
IR 85387 TO NEW DELHI) POR INFORMATION.

PLEASE RELAY DIR

END OP MESSAGE

4/
COORDINATING DESIGERS
CROOP ?
Seetaded from puerta
Onccerstartge
BEPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IK DOween
DOOR/
AUTHENTICATING
OFFな

14-00000
CLOTHIN STATIONS AND BASES
CR
T
200-120-47
22 Now 53 17 032
FDEFERRED
ROUTINE

THAT
ESSEE CABLE INFO
ZAPRIMA
DIR 22218
CITE DIR
00001

1. RECENTLY CONCLUDED EOS REVIEW OF ZEPRIMA PROGRAM, SEOWS
2
223 EFFORTS HAVE NOT ACHIEVED ANY SIGNIFICANT RESULTS AND
CONTINUATION OF PROGRAM AS SUCH NO LONGE WARRANTED. MAIN REASON
POR KUDARK FAILURE IS THAT CUEAN TECNICIAN RECRUITING PROGR
2
FICEL'S
DAS BEEN MISERABLE FAILURE THE JEASURED AGAINSTYORIGINAL
:
OBJECTIVE OF 2000 TECES FROM WESTERN EUROPE ALONE TEOUCH CUR
FIGURES NOT COMPLETE, WE ESTIMATE PROBABLY LESS THAN FIFTY
CANDIDATES HAVE RECEIVED CONTRACT APPROVAL AND WE ABLE CONFIRI
ADOUT TEN WHO HAVE ACTUALLY MADE IT TO THE ISLAND. KUFARK
SUCCEEDED IN INSERTING ABOUT THIRTY RECRUITED TECES INTO THE
VARIOUS BIRING CHANNELS, BUT SO FAR ONLY THO EAVE RECEIVED CONTRACT
APPROVAL FROM HA VÀ
2 CUEAN FAILURE TO RECRUIT IN SIGNIFICANT NUMBERS APPEARS
DUE LARGELY TO RELUCTANCE FOREIGN MINISTRY AND FOREIGN SERVICE
OFFICERS PURSUE TECH RECRUITING MISSION AGGRESSIVELY, BUREAUCRATIC
INCOMPETENCE IN HAVANA, FEAR OF INFILTRATION OF BOSTILE ACEITS
RELEASING OFFICER
:
COORDINATING COFFICERS
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
م
CONT...
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
Copy tea

14-00000
TO
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONE
INFO
TO
SECRET
" FILF IN CS FILE NO.
3
ROUING
5
6
OEFERRED
ROUTINF
PAGE
INFO
CITE DIR 85387
PAGEABLE LOSS OF INTEREST IN THE PROGRAM ON PART OF CASTRO
LIMSELF. THESE FACTORS WHICH EMERGE FROM OUR STUDY OF THE CUBAN
PERFORMANCE ACCOUNT FOR LACK OF RESPONSE FROM EMBASSIES. TO
APPLICATIONS, LONG DELAY IN GETTING WORD BACK FROU HAVANA AND
SILALL NUMBER OF TECHS ULTIMATELY FIRED, LONG TIME LAC BETWEEN
INITIAL APPLICATION AND ULTIMATE APPROVAL FROM HAVA, WHICH RUNS
SIX TO WINE MONTHS, EAS COST CUBANS NUMBER OF TECHS WEO WERE
INITIALLY EAGER CUT SUBSEQUENTLY LOST INTEREST OR TOOK OTHER
JOBS.
3. IN FACE OF FOREGOING WE DO NOT BELIEVE IT FORTHWEILE
1
TO CONTINUE INTENSIVE SEARCH FOR ZPPRIXA CANDIDATES FOR INSERTION
-FISE STRESS
INTO CUBAN HIRING CHANNEL. /STATIONS WITH ACTIVE LEADS SHOULD STAY
WITH THEM IN THE HOPE THEY MAY STILL BE HIRED, BUT CEASE EFFORTS
TO GENERATE LEADS FROM SCRATCH. ON OTHER HAND, THERE ARE FAIR
NUMBER NON BLOC TECHS IN CUBA AND IT LIKELY CULANS WILL CONTINUE
TO HIRE NEEDED TECHS ON LIMITED SELECTIVE BASIS AS THEY DID PRIOR
TO ZEPRIMA PROGRAM. STATIONS THEREFORE ARE URGED TO CONTINUE BE
ALERT FOR SUCH OPPORTUNITIES AND TO EXPLOIT TE IN SANGS HAFNER
AS ALL OTHER OPPORTUNITIES TO PLACE RESIDENT AGENTS IN CUBA.
BELTASING OFFICE
SECEET
-
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE
CONT...,,
"AUTHENTICAIN
OFFER
Capryc

14-00000
INFO
C
AGE
3
85387
THIS CONIECTION NOTE THAT LOST PERUIEN CFFICIALS RESPONSIDLE
CADCADITING TECES TEED TO RELY EAVILY ON LOCAL CP STAMP OF
PPROVEL OF OTHER STRONG INDICATION THAT CANDIDATE IS POLITICALLY
OF REJECT IT.
LACKING THIS THEY MAY CITER IGNORE TIES APPLICATION
2
RESPONSE OF HOST STATIONS IX PLEIEITING PE CAS
BEEN HOST GRATIFTING, WE-ROVIDED CJEANS WITH GOOD LEER HIGHLY
CUALIFIED ENGINEERS AND TECHNICIANS TICH THEY FOR REASONS CITED
UMABLE OR UNWILLING TO АССЕРТ. KUMARK HAS MADE A РЕСТАЕ
EFFORT TO EXPLOIT THIS OPPORTUNITY AND FACT THAT WE HAVE NOT
ACHIEVED SIGNIFICANT RESULTS ISLY REFLECTION CULAR CONFUSION
AND INEPTITUDE RITH RESULTANT FAILO
5. DISCONTINUL USE ZAPELLAS
CES COMMEN
PLEASING OFFICER
せ
SECAST
200-120
END OF LESSAGE
seen in GIA
BEPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE RONG CHACE IS PROHIBITED.
*
2.
Cour...
/
2

14-00000
TO
FROIA DIRECTOR
CONE
INFO
10
INCLX
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.
PAGEFOUR
INFO
3
3
SAS/EOB
SAS/NOB
W3/5
303
A
CRC Locis
03
WI
C/FE
ILLIAM D. RYAN
CAVE
COGRDINATING OFFICERS
RELEASING OFFICER
4/D/
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY MED
12 62
ROUTING
4
5
6
DEFERRED
ROUTINE
CITE DIR
85387
03
!
DESEOID FITZGERALD
C/EAS
acceberben
UTHENTICATINS
officee
