2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

PROCESSING

TO
Chief, Special Affairs Staff

INFO
Chief of Station, JMWAVE
OPERATIONAL/TYPIC/AMFAUNA
Debriefing of AMFAUNA-14

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
Action Required: For Your Information

1. Following are the results of the debriefing of AMFAUNA-14 in the JMWAVE area from 22 November to 2 December 1963.

2. AMFAUNA-14 did not leave her apartment all day Sunday, 6 Oct. On Monday, 7 October, she went to work as usual. When she arrived, she found a letter waiting for her which had been forwarded to her office from her accommodation address; it was in AMPAUNA-1's handwriting and contained nothing of any interest, so she was sure there was a secret writing message on it.

3. At 1255 hours two men arrived at the office, one about 45 years old and short, who from his appearance might have been a bus driver, and the other a very young dark-skinned man. They walked into the office vestibule and told the guard that they wanted to see AMFAUNA-14. The guard came into the office to give AMFAUNA-14 the message, and the two men followed right behind. They told AMFAUNA-14 that she had to come with them to identify an arrested person. AMFAUNA-14 said that she would have to ask her supervisor for permission to leave, because it was not yet closing time. She turned to go back into the office, and the two men followed her in. The supervisor told her that it would be all right for her to go, but said that she should check in by phone if there were any difficulty. AMFAUNA-14's father and uncle, both of whom work in the same office, asked whether they could come with her. The men said no, because she would be coming right back; they said they were taking her to "G-2" headquarters in La Vibora.

Continued..
VIOLATION
POUCH
NO FIELD

Distribution:
Orig & 2 - Chief, SAS
INDEX-X
CS COPY

CROSS REFERENCE TO
719-5-1

CLASSIFICATION Excluded from
SECRET downgrading and
declassification

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
19-6-56/3
9 Dec 1963
UFGA-12894
19-6-50/3
#09748

4. AMFAUNA-14 tried to dispose of the letter she had just received from AMFAUNA-1 by leaving it on the desk of a fellow employee together with some potatoes and a carrot for cover, but the men would not let her. She did, however, manage to destroy a page from her notebook containing telephone numbers.

5. At the DSE headquarters in Villa Maristas, AMFAUNA-14 was turned over to a militiawoman who had her strip and performed a body search on her. She was fingerprinted and photographed and her biographic data were taken down, after which she was locked in a cell which had an adjoining private bath. Nothing else of importance happened for the rest of the day.

6. During her four-day detention period, AMFAUNA-14 was handled by the following DSE officers: C.L.1.BH NCB 11915 ELIS AGENT
SUD INTERACEATE SHAVANA, CUBA

(a) Francisco ABAD: AMFAUNA-14 believes that this is his real name. He did not introduce himself, but she saw the name on her release papers which he signed. He was born about 1918 and is about 5'4" tall, weighs about 160 pounds, and has a fat build, aquiline nose, greenish eyes, dark skin, grey-brown wavy hair, rough laborer's hands, and two teeth missing from the lower jaw. He smokes both cigars and cigarettes, his manner was soft and kindly, and AMFAUNA-14 believes he is probably poorly educated. He is married, but AMFAUNA-14 did not learn whether he has children or what his address is. He wears civilian clothes and drives a black 1956 Pontiac with a grey roof. Discussing this man later in the AMCOG household, AMFAUNA-14 was told by Pedro CARRILLO (who is a brother of Justo CARRILLO) that Pedro knows ABAD. According to Pedro, ABAD is part Jewish and an old Communist who worked in the Havana Underground on behalf of Fidel CASTRO during the Batista period. Pedro CARRILLO thinks that ABAD may now have some regrets about the course he has taken.

(b) "Carlos" aka "Samuel": AMFAUNA-14 does not know his true name. He was born about 1942 or perhaps a little earlier. He is about 5'6" tall, weighs about 150 pounds, and has a muscular build, drooping eyelids, light olive skin, wavy chestnut hair with a widows peak. He is a nervous pacer, and walks with his head bent forward and tilted slightly to one side. An expression which he frequently used was "O.K." pronounced "OKAH" with the accent on the first syllable. He told AMFAUNA-14 that he had been a student in the Commercial School of Havana, that he had worked clandestinely under the Batista regime, had been arrested by Col. Esteban VENTURA Novo, had been released due to the influence of his father, and had gotten out of the country with the aid of the Mexican Ambassador to Cuba, coming then to the United States. He drives a 1959 black and white Chevrolet Corvair, wears civilian clothes, and carries a pistol, sometimes a .45 and sometimes a .38. AMFAUNA-14 believes him to be a 100% Communist. She thinks he may have been somewhat better trained than Francisco ABAD and may have been somewhat superior in rank, although this was never clearly evident. There seemed to be a little professional jealousy between the two men. If she told one man something which she had been unable to remember for the other, the second would show signs of jealousy or resentment. "Carlos" subsequently told AMFAUNA-14 to phone 61-4319 and ask for "Samuel" when she wanted to reach him. She phoned him at this number about ten times in all. The phone was always answered by the same woman, except for once when a boy answered and then called for his mother to come and take the phone. AMFAUNA-14 would ask for "Samuel" and the woman would invariably reply that he was not there. AMFAUNA-14 would then ask the woman to take a message for him to please call "Dolores." The woman would always reply "Yes, Comrade." Discussing this person later within the AMCOG household, AMFAUNA-14 was told by Israel PADILLA that he thought "Carlos" was Samuel RODILES. IT/CUBA

Comment: The physical description of "Carlos" does not match that of Samuel RODILES Plana. Telephone number 61-4319 is listed in the 1962 Havana telephone directory to one Maria Antonia CARCANO Araujo, Artes 47, Casablanca, Havana WAVE traces on this C-T: CURA 50 PCS PHONE CONTACT FOR

name include HCSA-09896 of 23 April 1963 showing that one Maria CARCANO Arujo (born 7 December 1935) travelled to Chile in March and April 1963 on a diplomatic passport. An AMOT report of 27 September 1962 mentions one Antonia CARCANO Araujo as a communist in charge of vigilance, and living at 47 Artes St., Casablanca. There also appears to be a Maria ARAUJO (born about 1902) who is an old-time Communist living at Artes 47. AMPAUNA-1 has been given the names of several former residents of this neighborhood in hopes of finding a relative of the CARCANO or ARAUJO families whose physical description matches that of "Carlos," AMPAUNA-1 has also interviewed Col. VENTURA in the WAVE area. VENTURA remembers a case similar to that of "Carlos" but does not remember the boy's name. He says that he seems to remember that the boy's father was connected with one Jose LOPEZ Villaboy (on whom WAVE has numerous traces) and that he was assisted in getting to Mexico by a Mexican diplomat named "Benjamin." CUBA AGENT DOD.

(c) Fnu Inu: This man appeared a few times during AMFAUNA-14's interrogation. They never heard his name at this time, but later saw him on television interrogating AMBIG-2 and he was identified then as Jose Antonio FERNANDEZ Menert. She does not believe that this is his true name, because it is her understanding that DSE officers use aliases in their public appearances. He is about 5'11" tall, slender, with darkish skin and black hair combed straight back. He has very large green cold eyes. He was born about 1939 and appears to be uneducated, with a cynical and vulgar manner. He wears civilian clothes. NHAVANÁ

7. At about 1600 or 1700 hours on Tuesday, 8 October, AMFAUNA-14 was brought into ABAD's office for her first interview. ABAD began by asking if she knew why she was there. AMFAUNA-14 replied that she had no idea. ABAD observed that that was strange, because he had judged her to be an able and intelligent woman. CCCDA LOVER EF
201-3336750
8. Honestly believing that she might have been denounced by the jealous wife of her lover, Manuel COMPANIONI, AMFAUNA-14 suggested that it might be a personal matter.

CITICUDA
Ater, NEGRETELINGERO CONG
TOKA LUIS ANEGRET COD. I NGRE
9. ABAD said that it was not. He then asked her if she knew one Luis Braulio VILLAR Negret. AMPAUNA-14 said that she did not. ABAD said that this was strange, because VILLAR Negret knew her. He asked if she knew one Angel BRINGAS. AMFAUNA-14 said that she did. ABAD asked why, if she knew BRINGAS, she would deny knowing his cousin NEGRET.

10. AMPAUNA-14 said that she knew the man as Luis NEGRET and had not recognised the name VILLAR Negret. *NEGRET an (SUB INFOANEO
CHANTI-ASIAL ACTIV CLOANS.
11. ABAD told AMFAUNA-14 that NEGRET was then under detention and had implicated AMFAUNA-14 in his confession. ABAD wanted to know what AMFAUNA-14's connection with NEGRET had been. AMFAUNA-14 said that NEGRET had been in her house once, and once in her mother's.

12. At this point in the interrogation, ABAD was called away and AMFAUNA-14 was returned to her cell. Two hours later the interrogation was resumed.

13. ABAD picked up where he had left off, and asked AMFAUNA-14 what connection she had had with Angel BRINGAS. AMFAUNA-14 said that she had known BRINGAS no better than she had known NEGRET. ABAD said that she was lying and urged that she cooperate. AMFAUNA-14 promised that she would cooperate. ABAD said that NEGRET had told the DSE that AMFAUNA-14 had had sexual relations with BRINGAS, and AMFAUNA-14 denied the allegation.

14 The interrogation was again interrupted, and AMFAUNA-14 was returned to her cell. When she returned to the interrogation room, she saw that ABAD had an envelope containing what she recognized to be papers taken from her apartment, including airline passenger manifests, deciphering material, instructions for using the deciphering material, and insurance policies and personal papers belonging to AMFAUNA-1. AMFAUNA-14 now realized that it was time for her to pretend to

cooperate with the DSE, as AMFAUNA-1 had briefed her to do in such a situation.

15. ABAD began by telling her that she was in a very serious situation, because he knew that she had had very close connections with a KUBARK agent. ABAD asked whether AMFAUNA-1 was identical with "Julio." AMFAUNA-14 said that AMFAUNA-1 had been known as "Julio." ABAD then wanted to know whether NEGRET had been working with "Julio." AMPAUNA-14 denied this. ABAD asked whether NEGRET had known "Julio." AMPAUKA-14 denied this too, but volunteered the information that "Julio" had provided NEGRET with mail facilities, and that AMFAUNA-14 had been the cutout between them. Did NEGRET know of "Julio's" existance, ABAD wanted to know. AMFAUNA-14 said that he and not, that she had brought NEGRET mail and money which she had gotten from "Julio," and had picked mail up from him and delivered it to "Julio," but that NEGRET had never known "Julio's" identity.

16. The truth about AMFAUNA-14's relations with NEGRET and BRINGAS according to her statements to her KUBARK case officer in November 1963 in the JMWAVE area, is as follows:

(a) In about mid-1963, AMCOG-2 asked AMFAUNA-14 to serve as cutout between herself and an unidentified agent, and AMFAUNA-14 agreed. AMFAUNA-14 was driven to the meeting site, which was on the sidewalk in front of a textile factory near Calle 100 in Marianao, by ANCOG-2's chauffeur, a Spaniard named "Segundo, This agent introduced himself to AMFAUNA-14 only as "El #NEGRO", and AMFAUNA-14 described herself to him as an employee of an unidentified embassy. For contact purposes, "El Negro" gave her the telephone number 29-4900 or 20-4900.

(b) Later, when AMFAUNA-14 began to trust "El Negro" more, she gave him the telephone number of her mother. She learned that "R1 Negro's" true name was als Braulio VILLAR Negret, and that he lived in a small room in the rear of the textile factory. The telephone number which he had given her was always answered by a woman whose name she learned to be "Maximina."

(c) VILLAR Negret was born about 1928, and was about 5'11" tall with broad shoulders and a strong build. He had black wavy hair brown eyes, an olive skin, and a face marked by acne. AMFAUNA-14 never learned anything about his family directly from him, but DSE officers told her that he was married with one child, and that hie parents lived on a farm in Pinar del Rio Province. SUBL. IS INDOLUCO ARGIEVING INC. 197045.

(d) VILLAR Negret was a member of the Acción Revolucionaria Democratica, which AMFAUNA-14 understands to be a successor organization to the AAA of Aureliano SANCHEZ Arango. He had formerly belonged to an action component of this organization, but more recently had de-pvoted himself to intelligence collection. AMFAUNA-14 brought him in-structions and money from AMCOG-2, and picked up his intelligence reports which she delivered to ANCOG-2. She understands that AMCOG-2 sent these reports via diplomatic channels to Frank PAEZ inMiami FLA, USA wag. 19 tyre delivered them to an individual identified only as El 21-224340. The last contact which AMFAUNA-14 had had with IT Negro was in mid September 1963 when he passed her a report which he said concerned missile base, and a book on Communist infiltration in Colombia.

(e) Once when "El Negro" was sick the sent his cousin to meet with AMPAUNA-14. This cousin was Angel BRINGAS, an employee of an Xeray equipment company at 23rd and O. 14 Rampa, Vedado, telephone -5870. On various other subsequent occasions, BRINGAS filled in for IT Negro."

(f) According to what the DSE officers told her, "El Negro" vas arrested about 1 October and was to be shot. AMFAUNA-14 asked her DSE interrogators whether it would not be possible to reindoctrinate "El Negro" instead of shoot him, but they told her that it was not worth the trouble because "El Negro" was a person of low morals who

be shown to Angel BRINGAS when and if he is caught.

(g) On 12 or 13 October 1963, after AMFAUNA-14 had been released, she was telephoned at her place of employment by Angel BRINGAS who told her guardedly that "El Negro" had been arrested and said that he would like to send a female cousin of his to talk to AMFAUNA-14. A meeting was arranged in the home of AMFAUHA-14's mother. The female cousin, whose name was "Gladys", told AMFAUNA-14 that BRINGAS had gone into hiding and wondered whether "the family with which she worked" (the ABCOGS) could help him get into asylum. AMFAUNA-14 said that she doubted this. "Gladys" told AMFAUNA-14 that, in case it were possible to do anything for BRINGAS, she should telephone "Gladys" with an innocent message. It was understood that a meeting would take place at 1000 hours on the same day of the telephone call at the Ten Cent Store at 83rd between 10th and 12th in Vedado. AMFAUNA-14 does not remember Gladys' telephone number which was left with her mother.

(h) In spite of what AMFAUNA-14 told the DSE, AMFAUNA-1 had had nothing to do with NEGRET. AMFAUNA-14 had told this story to protect ANCOG-2. NEGRET had known that AMCOG-2 was involved, and had once had a meeting with her in her home. Nevertheless, AMFAUNA-14 briefed ANCOG-2 on the cover story which she had told the DSE and told her that, in case she were ever arrested and questioned, she should admit having talked to NEGRET in her home, but deny having been involved in the communications channel or knowing anything about it.

Station Comment: Luis Braulio VILLAR Negret appears to be identical with Luis NEGRE Villar (born 4 November 1930 in Consolacion del Sur, Pinar del Rio), who is carded as ACSI source No. 492 and appears in AMBUD correspondence as National Coordinator of the Accion Revolucionaria Democratica. "El Guajiro Bermudez" appears to be identical with Gerardo Jose #QUESADA Vasquez (201-292022) (born 9 May 1919, Pinar del Rio), President and founder of Accion Revolucionaria Democratica and ACSX Source No. 109 Tho are no Station traces on Angel BRINGAS. The 1988 Havana telephone directory has no listing aide #20-4900, CVOA 86-4900 18 listed το karael FLAMATUT, DAYS #4117, Marianno JMWAVE has no traces on him. There is no listing under 70-5570. However, under 70-5579 there is the Cubana, de Rayos X y Foto, S.A., Calle 23 #72, La Rampa.)

17. ABAD appeared to be particularly interested in how NEGRET and "Julio" obtained their funds, and kept returning to this subject during the interrogation.

16. ABAD then addressed himself to the contents of the envelope and a suitcase found in AMFAUNA-14's apartment. He commented that all these things appeared to belong to AMFAUNA-1 and his son, and asked how they happened to be there. AMFAUNA-14 replied that AMFAUNA-1 and his son, together with AMFAUNA-3, had been hiding for a few days in her apartment because their usual hiding place had become unavailable.

19. ABAD wanted to know how and when AMFAUNA-14 had first met AMPAUNA-1. ANFAUNA-14 replied that she had met AMFAUNA-1 in about February 1962, that AMFAUNA-1 had regularly parked his car in a lot near her office and that they had seen each other on the street frequently, that ANFAUNA-1 had finally spoken to her, and that a friendship had developed which finally turned into a love affair. (Comment: This was a lie told to conceal the fact that it had been AMCUTLER-2 who had in-troduced them.) She said that AMFAUNA-1 had been her lover until about July 1962 when she broke up with him because he was too busy with clandestine work to pay the proper amount of attention to her.

20. ABAD asked what part AMFAUNA-14 had played in AMFAUNA-1's clandestine activities. AMFAUNA-14 replied that AMFAUNA-1 would some-times telephone her late at night to invite her to go out for a ride, and she would then find that AMFAUNA-1 was going out to have agent meetings and wanted her along for cover. ABAD asked whom AMFAUNA-1 had been meeting. AMFAUNA-14 mentioned a person known as "Gustavo" and

gave the physical description of AMFAUNA-24, whom she knew to be safely out of Cuba. (She never knew AMFAUNA-24's true name.) She also mentioned Manolo VILLAMANAN, the true name of AMFAUNA-13 (whom she had known only as AMFAUNA-1's business partner but when she thought she could safely mention now that he was out of Cuba,) For good measure she added a notional name and physical description.

21. Referring back to AMFAUNA-1's automobile, ABAD asked what kind of a car he had driven. AMFAUNA-14 replied that it was a gray Chevrolet Impala. She repeated that AMFAUNA 1 had formerly parked it near her office, but said that she had not seen it recently. ABAD asked where AMFAUNA-l's red car was, and she said she did not know. He asked what the license number on this car was, and she said she did not know. He never asked anything about the third car which AMFAUNA-1 had obtained.

22. ABAD commented that the DSE had observed AMFAUNA-1 in his automobile in the Havana dock area on 1 January 1963, having a meeting with another person. (AMFAUNA-14 recalls that this other person was AMPAUNA-24, and that he and AMFUANA-1 had rendezvoused in the dock area after an attempt to pick up AMFAUNA-1's radio.

23. With reference to the KUBARK agent known as "Julio", whom they had recently identified with AMFAUNA-1, ABAD said that he knew that "Julio" had left Cuba in October 1962 and believed that he had gone to Europe, but he said he did not know whether "Julio" had gone clandestinely or legally.

24. AMFAUNA-14 was asked about AMFAUNA-l's subsources in other provinces, but she said she knew nothing about them. ABAD said he was sure that ANPAUNA-1 had a good source on the Tale of Pines. Whose war name night be "Raul". ABAD also mentioned the name of a person who had been shot about two weeks previously and who he believed had been work-ing with AMFAUNA-1. (AMFAUNA-14 does not remember the name of this person.)

25. ABAD asked if AMFAUNA-1's son had helped him in this clandestine work. AMFAUNA-14 replied that the son had been with AMFAUNA-1 frequently, but that she thought it was only because he was helping AMPAUNA-1 with his business and that the son probably had had nothing to do with clandestine work.

26. ABAD again turned to the envelope of papers found in AMFAUNA-148 apartment, and said he could see she was not cooperating with him. She was not volunteering information, he said, but waiting to be asked questions. ABAD said he was sure that there was much that AMFAUNA-14 could tell him spontaneously, and he intimated that there might be a chance for her to rehabilitate herself.

27. ABAD asked her where the passenger lists came from. AMFAUNA-14 replied that they had been left in her apartment by AMFAUNA-1, who intended to instruct her later by SW what to do with them. She said that AMFAUNA-1 had trained her in this system, and had left her his materials, so that he could use her as a stop-gap communications link while he was trying to reorganize his net.

28. ABAD told her that this was plainly not true, because some of the lists were dated later than AMFAUNA-1's departure date. He said he supposed they had been brought to AMFAUNA-14's apartment by AMCUTLER-2, who had been observed coming there on 5 October with Lolip CORREOSO. (This was true, according to AMFAUNA-14. AMCUTLER-2 and Lolin CORREOSO had brought the passenger manifests to AMFAUNA-14's house at about 1630 or 1700 hours on 5 October, and had stayed about fifteen minutes. AT 1400 hours that same day, AMFAUNA-14 had had a meeting with AMFAUNA-39, the first in two weeks, initiated by AMFAUNA-39 by means of a telephone call to AMFAUNA-1's mother who was serving as cutout between them. APAIHA-39 had called the meeting to ask whether she had received any instructions from AMFAUNA-1 as to how to act in case of an internal uprising, which a number of people in Cuba seemed to be expecting about that time as a result of the dat caused by Hurricane Flo NO.

(The DSE interrogators never at any time mentioned AMFAUNA-39, or asked her about this earlier meeting, SO AMPAUNA-14 concludes that she had not been under intensive surveillance that day; either AMCUTLER-2 had been under surveillance on 5 October, or she herself had been under some kind of periodic spot check.)

29. ABAD asked AMFAUNA-14 how she had become acquainted with AMCUTLER-3, and AMFAUNA-14 replied that she had met AMCUTLER-2 through AMFAUNA-15, the wife of a cousin of AMFAUNA-14 who is a prisoner on the Isle of Pines.

30. ABAD then asked AMFAUNA-14 where her SW materials were, which surprised AMFAUNA-14 because she had thought they had been found during her house search and were part of the incriminating envelope which ABAD was holding. AMFAUNA-14 told ABAD where to look for the materials, and he sent somebody to get them.

31. ABAD wanted to know how AMFAUNA-1 and AMFAUNA-3 had gotten out of Cuba. AMFAUNA-14 said she did not know. She said she understood they were to get their instruction on the street once they had left her apart-mont.

32. ABAD abruptly asked AMFAUNA-14 whether she knew anybody in Luyano. ANFAUNA-14 said she did not. ABAD then produced a photograph of ANFAUNA-14 together with AMFAUNA-1 and AMWEE-28 and told her that she had been in AMWEB-2's home in Luyano with AMFAUNA-1 on Saturday, 7 September He asked AMFAUNA-14 whether AMWEE-2 were employed in an embassy. AMFAUNA 14 said she did not know but that she thought so. She said she knew AMEER-3 to be a personal friend of AMFAUNA-1, and thought that he might occasionally have helped AMFAUNA-1 with his mail. (It was true that AMFAUNA-14 had gone to AMWEE-2's house on 7 September with AMFAUNA-1. Later the same day AMFAUNA-1 took her to Miramar to introduce her to ........

33. ABAD again changed the subject suddenly. "Where is the radio?" he asked. "Could AMWEE- have it?" AMFAUNA-14 said she did not know anything about a radio. "Where is the camera?" asked ABAD. AMFAUNA-14 admitted having seen AMFAUNA-1 with a Minox camera, but said she did not know what AMFAUNA-1 had done with it. She said she had hoped that AMPAUHA-1 would leave it with her, and pretended to be hurt that he had not done so. ABAD asked her whether she had ever seen one like it in the AXCOG house, and AMFAUNA-14 said that she had. Throughout the interrogation, ABAD kept reverting to the subject of the camera and the radio.

34. ABAD asked AMPAUNA-14 what her connection was with the AMCOG family. She replied that her grandmother was the cousin of AMCOG-3's mother. ABAD said that the whole family had been under observation for a long time, and mentioned an organization (name not remembered by AMPAUNA-14) which ANCOG-3 had worked with during the Batista era. What, ho wanted to know, was ANCOG-3 doing. AMFAUNA-14 said that she did not think he was doing anything clandestine. ABAD replied that the DSE was positive that AMCOG-3 was doing secret work. ANFAUNA-14 said that the DEB should not delude itself, that the entire family was too selfish to engage in anything of the kind.

35. ABAD asked what the diplomatic visitors to the AMCOG household talk about. AMPAUNA-14 said that they never talk politics. ABAD asked about the attitude of"the Doctor" (AMCOG-3's uncle), and AMFAUNA-14 said that he was waiting for the situation to settle.

36. "What about AMFAUNA-3?" asked ABAD. "Did she work with AMPAUNA-1?" ANFAUNA-14 said that she did not, but that she sometimes gave him information. ABAD wanted to know whether AMFAUNA-3 had been working with some one in Florida. AMFAUNA-14 answered that ARFAUNA-3

had been involved somehow with her sister who lives in Florida. ABAD asked whether AMFAUNA-14 had been a good friend of AMFAUNA-3, and she said that she had been. ABAD asked whether AMFAUNA-14 had ever heard AMPAUNA-3 speak about the Escambray insurgents. AMFAUNA-14 said that she had not. ABAD asked whether AMFAUNA-3 had had contacts with any embassy people, for example the Spanish Embassy. ANFAUNA-14 said that she did not know of any such contacts.

37. ""How about AMCUTLER-3?" asked ABAD. "We know that she spends & lot of time there." AMFAUNA-14 said she did not know.

38. ABAD asked AMFAUNA-14 if she were a revolutionary. AMFAUNA-14 said that she was not, but that neither was she against the revolution. She said that she had joined the militia early in the revolution, but had soon dropped out because there were some things about the revolution which she did not understand. For instance, she could not understand why there should be so many shortages and rationing, whereas before the revolution there had been plenty. ABAD explained that the shortages were the result of the imperialist blockade of Cuba. AMFAUNA-14 said that she could understand this, but that it did not explain why there should be a shortage of coffee when Cuba grew its own. ABAD said that coffee was in short supply because Cuba was sending coffee to the Soviet Union in gratitude for Soviet assistance in overcoming shortages caused by the imperialist blockade. AMFAUNA-14 replied that this was very logical now that it had been explained to her, and said she wondered why the revolutionary government did not publicly say so in order to put an end to public grumbling on the subject.

39. Early in the morning of 9 October, ABAD produced the letter which AMFAUNA-14 received from AMFAUNA-1 on 7 October and held up the letter to the light, examining it carefully for traces of SW. AMFAUNA-14's developer pills were brought and she was told to develop the letter. which she did in the presence of ABAD, "Carlos," and a third man whom she was unable to get a good look at. All were very surprised and disappointed when no secret writing appeared. They kept asking her if she were sure she was doing it right, and began intimating that she was deceiving them. (Station Comment: It is indeed surprising that no secret writing appeared, because this letter was almost undoubtedly the one containing SW message no. 1 to AMFAUNA-14.)

40. AMFAUNA-14 also explained the use of her carbons. The only accommodation address she gave away was AMFAUNA-1's JMWAVE area post office box. She deliberately protected the (Rosa JUSTIZ address. (the home of AMPAN-2), not knowing whether this was a real or a fictitious person.

41. "Carlos" and ABAD now invited AMFAUNA-14 to work with them. She replied that she might be willing to do so, but first wanted to know what work would be expected of her. For instance, she said, she would not inform on people in her office. They told her that this would not be asked of her, because that sort of work is done by the Defense Committees. Her work, they said, would be much more important, namely maintaining a link between themselves and KUBARK. She said that would be all right, but she was afraid that it would not last long because KUBARK would probably put her on ice as soon as they learned that she had been arrested. They told her not to worry about that.

43. "Carlos" and ABAD suggested to her that AMFAUNA-1 had briefed her to agree to cooperate with them. She denied this, claiming that she had not really wanted to work with ANFAUNA-1 at all, but had merely let herself be imposed on for old times sake. They asked whether they could trust her. She said she thought so, and asked whether she could trust them to keep their promises. They assured her that she could, and said she would be released the following day.

43. In the morning of 10 October, after being told that she was to be released, AMPAUNA-14 was moved to a smaller cell without a bath. She sont for ABAD and complained that he had double-crossed her. He told

her that he was going to keep his word and release her, but that her original cell was needed for some new prisoners who were expected. He said that the DSE had received advance word that a boatload of refugees were going to try to leave Cuba that night. Many of them were women, and one of those was pregnant, so he wanted the larger cell with bath for them.

44. ABAD always treated AMFAUNA-14 kindly and considerately. When she had a headache, he ordered aspirin for her. Her saw to it that she received soft drinks when she wanted them, and he seemed to be honestly distressed whenever she wept. AKTAUNA-14 believes that it had been the DSE's intention from the very beginning to recruit her, because she doubts that all DSK prisoners are treated as well.

45. The first SW message which AMFAUNA-14 wrote while under DSE control was dated 10 October, the day of her release. The DSE officers asked her what her control signal was, and she replied that it was a rubric, but also included her true control signal. She deliberately numbered her first controlled SW message no. 2, to conceal the fact that she had already written several messages containing intelligence reports.

46. In all she wrote three SW messages under control. She was obliged to write each one in duplicate, one of which was mailed and the other given to the DSE for study. One day