```markdown
14-00000
104-10175-10179
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH
CLASSFCATION
SECRET
PROCESSING
ACTION
MAPTIC FOUR INDEXING
ING INCENG REQUIRED
لازانIED
HEATPARTERS DESA.
CAD J.CE INDEXING
ABSTRACT

TO
Chief, Wi Division
INFO.
FROM
XX
SUBJECT
Chief of Station, Mexico City
LIHUFF/1
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
REFERENCE: A. HMMW-11321, 13 Feb 1963
Β. ΗΜΜΑ-20931, 22 Mar 1963
禁にし
1. Transmitted under separate cover truename attachments are the
following forms to complete Headquarters' records on subject:

a. Personal History Statement
b. Personai history Suate...cat (Appendix I)
c. Report of Medical History
ACCOM
FLISMED

2. Subject was originally recruited as a cutout for the LIHUFF/2
:
:
organization. However, his actual duties for KUBARK entail far more than
contact and communication with LIHUFF/2. He is an outside agent. In
addition to acting as the contact between the Mexico Station and the LIHUFF/2
Institute, LIHUFF/l is responsible for organizing and directing the KUWOLF
student groups in the LIHUFF/2 project; printing and distributing of propaganda;
planning and initiating student harrassn.ent activities. Since LIHUFF,1's
duties are those of an outside agent is salary was established to reimburse
him for the amount of tince it is necessary for him to spend on LIHUFF
activities. In this regard, it is felt that the sum of $500. monthly is not an
excessive amount. Headquarters is requested to process a contract for
subject in this amount.
১০
3. Subject's social security number is 255-58-5834

Enclosures:
as stated above (UNDER SEPARATE COVER)
Distribution:
WH, w/encis
CS COPY
CROSS REFERENCE in 12 milk
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
Wilcard Curtis
inara C. CURTIS
DATE TYPED
:
23
201-2:199
29 Apr 63
CATE CISPATCHED
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
ΗΜΜΑ-21166
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
30 Apr 63

201-209993 23
3/RS

14-00000
6741
SECRET
PART 111
NOTE: DETACH THIS PORTION OF FORM AND DISTRIBUTE SEPARATELY
LL SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
255-58-58843
08
IF SOCIAL SECURITY NO. IS NOT AVAILABLE. HAVE FORM NO. 55-5,
"APPLICATION FOR SOCIAL SECURITY ACCENTS, COMPLETED AS
PROVIDED IN DETAILED PROCEDURES.
21. ADDRESS OF RECORD (In U.S.)
FORM
none
SIGNED ORIG. AND COPY
DISTRICTION-
3138 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
22. ADDRESS (Foreign)
City Kexico
Nexico City,
20. CITIZENSHIP
USA
TO FINANCE: COPY TO CENTPAL COVER: COPY TO FILE
SECRET

14-00000
08
الهمة
DO NOT USE THIS SPACE
THIS DATE (Fillin)
ISSUED BY
PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT
INSTRUCTIONS
1. Answer all questions completely or check appropriate box. If question is not applicable, write "NA". Write "Un-
known only if you do not know the answer and it cannot be obtained from personal records. Use blank space at
end of form for extra details on any question for which you have insufficient space.
2. Type, print or write carefully; illegible or incomplete forms will not receive consideration.
3. Consider your answers carefully. Your signature at the end of this form will certify to their correctness. Careful
completica of all applicable questions permit review of your qualifi: ations to the best advantage.
GENERAL PERSONAL AND PHYSICAL DATA
SECTION I
1. FULL NAME 'Lest-First-Middle)
2. AGE
3. SEX
Wichtrich, Alfonso Rudolph
47
IX VALE
CHEIGHT
5. WEIGHT
6. COLOR OF EYES
17. COLOR OF HAIR
18. TYPE COMPLEXION
6'3" 185
Brown
Browa
Light
10 SCARS Type and Location)
None
FEMALE
9. TYPE BUILD
Med.
11. OTHER DISTINGUSHING PHYSICAL FEATURES
None
12. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street. City, Zone. State and Country)
Toluca Highway - Kim 19-1/2
El Magueyito, Cuajimalpa
Mexico, D. F... Mexico
14. CURRENT PHONE NO.
10
113. PERMANENT ADDRESS (Vo., Street, City, Zone, State and
Country) AND PHONE NO.
Sames (12)-
Phone 20-77-17 08
16. LEGAL RESIDENCE (State, Terryогу оf Country)
20-77-47708
17. NICKNAMES
Pancho - Al
15. OFFICE PHONE NO. & EXT.
35-96-5308
;
Mexico
18. OTHER NAMES YOU HAVE USED
None
08
19. INDICATE CIRCUMSTANCES inchuding Length of Time) UNDER WHICH YOU HAVE EVER USED THESE NAMES.
Pancho - through college - Willcox & Tucson Ariz, Ai- Used to date,
20. IF LEGAL CHANGE. GIVE PARTICULARS (Where and by What Authority)
SECTION II
08
POSITION DATA
1. INDICATE THE TYPE OF WORK OR POSITION FOP WHICH YOU ARE APPLYING

2. INDICATE THE LOWEST ANNUAL ENTRANCE SALARY YOU WILL 13. DATE AVAILABLE FOR EMPLOYMENT
ACCEPT (You will not be considered for why position with a lower
entrance salary).
JOCCASIONALLY
S
FREQUENTLY
4. INDICATE YOUR WILLINGNESS TO TRAVEL
'CONSTANTLY
OTHER:
S. INDICATE YOUR WILLINGNESS TO ACCEPT ASSIGNMENT IN THE FOLLOWING LOCATIONS (Check (X) each item applicablej
WASHINGTON D.c.
ANYWHERE IN U.s.
OUTSIDE CONTINENTAL U s
CERTAIN LOCATIONS ONLY (Specify:
6. INDICATE #MAT RESERVATIONS YOU WOULD PLACE ON ASSIGNMENTS OUTSIDE THE WASHINGTON, D.C. AREA.
FORM 444 USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
4-58
٠١٠
:
(4)
8
slips

14-00000
1
-2-
09,10
SECTION 111
1. DATE OF BIRTH
CITIZENSHIP
2 PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Counter)
Oc:. 30, 1915 Chihuahua, China Mexico.
BIRTH
4. CITIZENSHIP ACQUIRED BY
5 CATE NATURAL-
IZED
MARRIAGE X'OTHE» (Specily): derivirive. N.A.
7. COURT ISSUING NATURALIZATION CERTIFICATE
Ν.Α.
3. PRESENT CITIZENSHIP (Country)
U.S.A.
6. NATURALIZATION CERTIFICATE NO.
N.A
18.SSUED AT (Csty, State, Countrys
Ν.Α.
9. HAVE YOU HELD PREVIOUS NATIONALITY 10. IF YES, GIVE NAME OF COUNTRY
YES
x
NO
Ν.Α.
11. GIVE PARTICULARS CONCERNING PREVIOUS NATIONALITY.

Ν.Α.
12. HAVE YOU TAKEN STEPS TO CHANGE
PRESENT CITIZENSHIP
YES
13. GIVE PARTICULARS
X NO
Ν.Α.
14. IF YOU HAVE APPLIED FOR U.S. CITIZENSHIP, WHAT IS PRESENT STATUS OF YOUR APPLICATION (First Papers, Etc.)
NA
15. DATE OF ARRIVAL IN U.S.
16. PORT OF ENTRY
1916
El Paso, Texas
16. LAST U.S. VISA (No. Type, Place of Issue)
N.A
SECTION I۷
EDUCATION
17. ON PASSPORT OF WHAT COUNTRY
Unknown
19. DATE VISA ISSUED
Ν.Α.
1. CHECK (X) HIGHEST LEVEL OF EDUCATION ATTAINED
LESS THAN HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE
HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE
TRADE. BUSINESS, OR COMVERCIAL SCHOOL GRADUATE
THO VEARS COLLEGE NELESS
OVER TRO YEARS OF COLLEGE NO DEGPEE
X BACHELCA'S DEGREE
GRADUATE STUDY LEADING TO HIGHER DEGREE
MASTER'S DEGREE
LOOCTOR'S DEGREE
2. ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
2. ADDRESS (City, State, Country)
Willcox, Arizona 10
4. GRADUATE
٧٤٩
NO
3. HIGH SCHOOL
2. ADDRESS:City, State, Country)
Willcox, Arizona
10
4. GRADUATE
XYES
NO
2. ADDRESS City, State, Country)
INAME CELEMENTARY SCHOOL
Willcox Grammar School
3. DATES ATTENDED (Fromman
1922-1930
1. NAME OF HIGH SCHOOL
১০
Willcox Union High School 08
3. DATES ATTENDED (From-eng-Hol
1930-1934
1. NAME OF HIGH SCHOOL

3. DATES ATTENDED (From-and Taj
YES
4. GRADUATE
NO
4. COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY STUDY
NAME AND LOCATION OF COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY
University of Arizona
Tucson Arizona
08
SUBJECT
MAJOR MINOR
FROM
CATES ATTENDED
DEGREE
RECO
DATE
REC D
TO
SEM OTA
HOURS
(Specify)
May
Bachelor 1939
10
Sem-
Range Antma!
Ecology Husb. 34 39

SECTION IV CONTINUED TO PAGE 3
oles
Rs

14-00000
SECTION IV CONTINUED FROM PAGE 2
S. IF A GRADUATE DEGREE HAS BEEN NOTED IN ITEM & WHICH REQUIRED SUBMISSION OF A WRITTEN THESIS, INDICATE THE TITLE
OF THE THESIS AND BRIEFLY DESCRIBE ITS CONTENT.
Ν.Α.
NAME AND ADDRESS OF SCHOOL
Ν.Α.
Ν.Α.
NA
6. TRADE, COMMERCIAL AND SPECIALIZED SCHOOLS
STUDY OR SPECIALIZATION
FROM
TO
MONTHS
7. MILITARY TRAINING (FULL TIME DUTY IN SPECIALIZED SCHOOLS SUCH AS ORDNANCE, INTELLIGENCE, COMMUNICATIONS, ETC.)
NAME AND ADDRESS OF SCHOOL
STUDY CR SPECIALIZATION
Cav. School - Basic
Troop Duty
Fr. Riley, Kansas
Horse & Mechanized
Cav. School - Advanced
Fr. Riley. Kansas
Command &
Sanman Leavenworth, Kan
G-2-C&GS
8. OTHER EDUCATIONAL TRAINING NOT INDICATED ABOVE.
War Dept. Mis-X - Intelligence
Fort Hunt, Washington, D. C. 1943-6 months
SECTION V
1. LANGUAGE
(List below each language in
which you possess any degree
of competence. Indicate your
proficiency to Read. Write of
Speck by placing a chork (3)
in the appropriate boxfies).
Spanish
FOREIGN LANGUAGE ABILITIES
COMPETENCE IN ORDER LISTED
R-Read, W.Write, S-Speak
FROM
τα
MONTHS
1941
3
1942
3
1943
3
HOW ACQUIRED
EQUIY-
ALENT
TO
NATIVE
FLUENCY
FLUENT
BUT
OBVIOUSLY
FOREIGN
ADEQUATE ADEQUATE
८०१
RESEARCH TRAVEL
FOR
KNOR
R
R
R
LIMITED
LEDGE
NATIVE
OF
COUNTRY
PRO-
LONGED
RES
IDENCE
with
parents,
etc)
CONTACT ACADEMIC
STUDY
(all
levels)
R
$
RIW
XXX
X
X
X
:
2. IF YOU HAVE CHECKED "ACADEMIC STUDY" UNDER "NOW ACQUIRED", INDICATE LENGTH AND INTENSIVENESS OF STUDY.
4 years high school
2 years college
3. IF YOU HAVE INDICATED FLUENCY FOR A LANGUAGE HAVING SIGNIFICANT DIFFERENCES IN SPOKEN AND BRITTEN FORM, EX-
PLAIN YOUR COMPETENCE THEREIN.
Ν.Α.
4. DESCRIBE YOUR ABILITY TO DO SPECIALIZED LANGUAGE WORK INVOLVING VOCABULARIES AND TERMINOLOGY IN THE SCIEN-
TIFIC, ENGINEERING, TELECOMMUNICATIONS, MILITARY, AND OTHER SPECIALIZED FIELDS
Business terminology - write - speak read & translate.
Socio-Economics
write speak read & translate.
5. IF YOU HAVE NOTED A PROFICIENCY IN LANGUAGE, COULD YOU BE FILLING TO USE THIS ABILITY IN ANY POSITION, FOR WHICH
YOU MIGHT BE SELECTED
XYES
NO
...

14-00000
1
i
•
08
SECTION VI
4-
GEOGRAPHIC AREA KNOWLEDGE AND FOREIGN TRAVEL
1. LIST BELOW ANY FOREIGK REGIONS OR COUNTRIES IN WHICH YOU HAVE TRAVELLED OR GAINED KNOWLEDGE AS A RESULT OF
RESIDENCE, STUDY OROK ASSIGNMENT. INDICATE TYPE OF KNOWLEDGE SUCH AS TERRAIN, HARBORS, UTILITIES, RAIL-
ROADS, INDUSTRIES, POLITICAL PARTIES, ETC.
KACELEDGE ACQUIRED BY
NAME OF
TYPE OF
REGION OR COUNTRY
SPECIALIZED KNOWLEDGE I
DATES OF
RESIDENCE
OR TRAVEL
DATES AND
PLACE OF STUDY
RES:-
DEACE
WORK
TRAVEL STUDY ASSIGN
MENT
Industrial Bus.
1919-
Mexico
Socio-Economia
Politics
Present
Ν.Α.
X
X X X
10
Business
Panama
Terrain - R.R.
1945-1949
Ν.Α.
X X
X
China
Terrain
Local Conditions.
Terrain
1943-1945 Ν.Α.
X
X
XX
Central Amer. Local Conditions
1946-Present N.A.
X
X
2 INDICATE THE PURPOSE OF VISIT, RESIDENCE OR TRAVEL IN EACH OF THE REGIONS OR COUNTRIES LISTED ABOVE.
Mexico - Business - Work Assignment
Panama - Business - Work Assignment
China Army.
3. UNITED STATES PASSPORT NUMBER AND EXPIRATION DATE IF ISSUED.
#118056- Expired August 20, 1962
SECTION VIT
1. TYPING (wpm) 2. SHORTHANO(wpm)
x Unknown
No
TYPING AND STENOGRAPHIC SKILLS
GREGG
SPEEDERITING
3. SHORTHAND SYSTEM USED CHECK (X) APPROPRIATE ITEM
ISTENOTYPE 1 OTHEP (Specify):
2. INDICATE OTHER BUSINESS MACHINES WITH WHICH YOU HAVE HAD OPERATING EXPERIENCE OR TRAINING (Complacmeter,
Microgaph Card Punch, Ettal.
None
:
17.
:
SECTION Vill
SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS
1. LIST ALL HOBBIES AND SPORTS IN WHICH YOU ARF ACT VE NO HAVE ACTIVELY PARTICIPATED. INDICATE YOUR PROFICIENCY
Major Athletics - Good
Riding Horseback - Good
Horse shoes
Gardening - Fair
Bridge - Fair
Good
2. INDICATE ANY SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS RESULTING FROM EXPERIENCE OR TRAINING WHICH MIGHT FIT YOU FOR A
PARTICULAR POSITION OR TIPE OF CRK.
3. EXCLUDING BUSINESS EQUIPMENT OR MACHINES WHICH YOU MAY MAVE LISTED IN ITEM 2, SECTION VII, LIST ANY SPECIAL
SKILLS YOU POSSESS RELATING TO OTHER EQUIPMENT AND MACHINES SUCH AS OPERATION OF SHORTWAVE RADIO (Indi
cate CT speed, sending and receiving). OFFSET PRESS, TURRET LATHE, SCIENTIFIC AND PROFESSIONAL DEVICES.
SECTION VIII CONTINUED TO PAGE S
•
3/RS
*

14-00000
SECTION VIII CONTINUED FROM PAGE 4
4. ARE YOU NOW OR MAVE YOU EVER BEEN A LICENSED OR CERTIFIED MEMBER OF ANY TRADE OR PROFESSION, SUCH AS PILOT,
ELECTRICIAN, RADIO OPERATOR, TEACHER, LAWYER, CPA, MEDICAL TECHNICIAN, ETC.
YES
NO
5. IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED YES TO ABOYE. INDICATE KIND OF LICENSE AND STATE ISSUING LICENSE (Provide License Registry
Number, if kποκτι).
Ν.Α.
6. FIRST LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE (Year ca Issue)
Ν.Α.
7 LATEST LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE (Year of Issue)
Ν.Α.
6. LIST ANY SIGNIFICANT PUBLISHED MATERIALS OF WHICH YOU ARE THE AUTHOR (Do NOT submit copies unless requested). INDICATE
THE TITLE, PUBLICATION DATE, AND TYPE OF WRITING (Noor Fiction or Scientific articles, General Interest subjects, Novels, Short
Stories, Etc.).
Ν.Α.
9. INDICATE ANY DEVICES WHICH YOU HAVE INVENTED AND STATE WHETHER OR NOT THEY ARE PATENTED.
Ν.Α.
10. LIST PUBLIC SPEAKING AND PUBLIC OF
Throughout College and business career.
11. LIST ANY PROFESSIONAL, ACADEMIC OR HONORARY ASSOCIATIONS OR SOCIETIES IN WHICH YOU ARE NOW OR WERE FORMERLY
A MEMBER. LIST ACADEMIC HONORS YOU HAVE RECEIVED.
Alpha Zeta - Honorary
Bob Cats
University of Arizona
Scabbard & Blade
08
08
SECTION IX
EMPLOYMENT HISTORY
NOTE: (LIST LAST POSITION FIRST.) Indicate chronological history of employment for past 15 years. Account for all periods
including casual employment and all periods of unemployment. Give address and state what you did during periods of
unemployment. List all civilian exzzloyment by a foreign Govemment, regardless of dates. In completing item 9, "De-
scription of Duties consider your experience carefully and provide mearmgful, objective statements.
1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To By be and Ye.)
1/1/63 Present
3. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country?
Lucerna 78- Mexico D. F.
4. KIND OF BUSINESS
Promote trade & good will
6. TITLE OF JOB
08 Executive Vice President
8. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES
27.
2 NAME OF EMOTING FIRM OR AGENCY
American Chamber of Commerce 29
5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR
Executive Committee r
7. SALARY OR EARNINGS
8. CLASS. GRADE (Il Federal Service)
• 9600. ...annum
Management & direction of Chamber P. R. Defend free enterprise system. 08
Coordinate committee work. / Promote trade develop good will. 08
10. REASONS FOR LEAVING
Ν.Α.
SECTION EX CONTINUED TO PAGE 6

14-00000
2
ECTION
I INCLUSIVE DATES /Frmand To By Mo and it,
Sept. 1949- Dec. 31, 1962.
3 ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country?
Columbus, Georgia
4 KIND OF BUSINESS
Soft Drink o
TITLE OF JOB
COATIALED FROM PAGE 5
2 NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM CR AGENCY
R.C. Cola Company 29
TH. Stanley) 06.
5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR
SAJ 08
7. SALADY OR EARNINGS
8. CLASS. GRADE II Fodorel Service)
s
12,000 PER year
Gen, Mgr, Roval Crown, S.
DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES
Direction of manufacturing concentrates. Marketing. Advertising.
Development of sales. Franchising. Mexico and C. America.
Supervision of all franchised borrling plants ants] 08
LEAVING
Transfer to States Preffered Mexico.
1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To By Ma and Yr)
Dec. 1946 Sept. 1949
3. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)
Panama Ren de Panama
KIND OF BUSINESS
10
Bottling & Sales - Soft drinks] 08
JOB
3. DESCRIPTION OF CUTIES
Direction of Company.
10. REASONS FOR LEAVING.
Unfavorable climatic conditions.
1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To By Mo. and Yt)
3. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Stace, Country:
4. KIND OF BUSINESS
2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY
R. C. Bottling Co. of Panama) 29
5. NAME OF SUPER.OR
Board of Directors
7. SALARY OR EARNINGS B. CLASS. GRADE (If Federal Service)
$19.000.
PER year
2 NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY
5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR
6. TITLE OF JOB
9. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES
10. REASONS FOR LEAVING
1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To By Mo and i'r)
3. ADDRESS (No., Street, City. State, Country)
KIND OF BUSINESS
6. TITLE OF JOB
;
7. SALARY OR EARNINGS 8. CLASS. GRADE (If Federal Service)
PER
2. NAVE OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY
:
5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR
? SALARY OR EARNINGS 16. CLASS. GRADE(Il Federal Service)
PER
ارجو التعلم ترند.

14-00000

SECTION IX CONTILED FROM PAGE 6
DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES
5
IE REASONS FOR LEAVING
1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To By Mo and Yr.)
2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY
3. ADDRESS (No. Street City, State, Country)
4. KIND OF BUSINESS
& TITLE OF JOB
6
9. CESCRIPTION OF DUTIES
10. REASONS FOR LEAVING
1. INCLUSIVE DATES/From and To-BrMo and Yr)
JADORESS (No. Street. City, State. Country)
4. KIND OF BUSINESS
6. TITLE OF COB
9. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES
IC REASONS FOR LEAVING
5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR
7. SALARY OR EARNINGS
PER
8. CLASS. CRADE (If Federal
Servica)
12 NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY
5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR
$
7. SALARY OR EARNINGS
PER
.CLASS. GRACE III Federal
Service)
8. IF PRIOR SERVICE BITH THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS NOTED ABOVE, INDICATE THE
NUMBER OF YEARS CRECITABLE TO APO U.S. CIVIL SERVICE RETIREMENT. IF KNOΥΗ.
9. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN DISCHARGED OR ASKED TO RESIGN FROM ANY POSITION.
HAVE YOU LEFT A POSITION UNDER CIRCUMSTANCES WHICH YOU DESIRE TO EXPLAIN
IF YOUR ANSWER TO EITHER OR BOTH QUESTIONS IS "YES", GIVE DETAILS
PES NO
YES NO

14-00000
:
1
SECTION X
1. ARE YOU REGISTERED FOR THE SPAFT UNDER
THE UNIVERSAL MILITARY TRAINING AND
SERVICE ACT OF 1948 (An armen de
4. IF DEFERRED, GIVE REASON
-8-
MILITARY SERVICE
1. CURRENT DRAFT STATUS
NA
YES 2. SELECTIVE SERVICE CLASSIFY 3. SELECTIVE SERVICE NO.
CATIO
NO
S. LOCAL DRAFT BOARD 2. OR DESIGNATION AND ADDRESS
2. MILITARY SERVICE RECORD
1. CURRENT AND/OR PAST ORGANIZATIONAL MEMBERSHIP
NAVY
MARINE
CORPS
AIR
COAST
MERCHANT NATIONALAIR NAT'L FOREIGN ORGAN. OR WIL.
FORCE GUARD MARINE GUARD I GUARD
SERVICE (Specify):
CHECK (X) AS
APPROPRIATE
MAVE SERVED
NOW SERVING
ARMY
XX
2. BRANCH OR CORPS OF ABOVE CHECKED ORGANIZATION(S)
Cavalry - MIS
3. DATE SEPARATED FROM EXTENDED ACTIVE DUTY (Past servicd 4. TOTAL LENGTH OF EXTENDED ACTIVE DUTY IN U.S. ARMED
6-46
FORCES (Past and carrent service
6 years
5. DATE ENTERED
ACTIVE DUTY
PAST SERVICE
CURRENT SERVICE
6. TCTAL LENGTH OF ACTIVE DUTY IN FOREIGN MILITARY C
GANIZATION
Jan, 1941
1. BANK, GRADE OR PAST SERVICE
PATE
CURRENT SERVICE
8. SERVICE, SERIAL OF FILE NUMBER fif now serving, provide cz
rect number)
Lt. Col 08
S. PRIMARY MILITARY OCCUPATIONAL
SPECIALTY (Mos or Designator) AND TITLE
PAST SERVICE
0-377220
CURRENT SERVICE
08
MIS
10. SECONDARY MIL. OCCUPATIONAL
PAST SERVICE
CURRENT SERVICE
SPECIALTY (Moe or Designator) AND
11. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF MILITARY DUTIES (Indicate whether applicable to past or current service) Past,
Troop duty - troop and squadron - horse and mechanizezi cavalry.
Military Intelligence - War Dept. Assigned CBI (MIS-X)
C-2 Car.
HONORABLE DISCHARGE X
RELEASE TO INACTIVE DUTY IX
RETIREMENT FOR AGE
12. CHECK (X) TYPE OF SEPARATION FROM ACTIVE CUTY
RETIREMENT FOR SERVICE
RETIREMENT FOR COMBAT DISABILITY
RETIREMENT FOR PHYSICAL DISABILITY
UNQUE HA ISHIPS
CTHER:
13. CHECK (X) COMPONENT IN WHICH YOU SERVES
X
REGULAR X RESERVE (Including the National and Air National Guard
1. DO YOU NOW HAVE
RESERVE STATUST X
X ARMY
NAVY
YES
NO
-HER (Including A) AUS
3. MILITARY RESERVE, NATIONAL GUARD AND ROTC STATUS
2. ARE YOU NOW A MEMBER OF THE 1 YES 3. ARE YOU NOW & MEMBER OF
NAT'L GRD OR AIR HAT'L.
GRD.?
X NO
4. IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED "YES" TO ITEMS 1, 2 OR 3 ABOVE, CHECK COMPONENT MEMBERSHIP BELOW
MARINE CORPS
AIR FORCE
NATIONAL GUARO
AIR NAT'L.GUARD
5. CURRENT RANK, GRADE OR
RATE
Lt. Col. 08
COAST GUAPO
ARVY ROTC
NAVY ROSTC
AIR FORCE ROTC
X
YES
ON
INDICATE ROTC CATEGORY MUS
BER
6. DATE OF APPOINTMENT IN CURRENT 7. EXPIRATION DATE OF CURGENT RESERVE OBLIGA
RANK
1944
TION
B. CHECKtxt CURRENT RESERVE CATEGORY
'READY RESERVE
STANDBY (ActrX STANDBY pective) RETIRES
9. FRIMARY MILITARY OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY (Mos or Desig- 10. SECONDARY MILITARY OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY (Moser Dee-
nator) AND TITLE
Mi
11. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF MILITARY RESERVE DUTIES
Ignator) AND TITLE
Unknown
Ν.Α.
12. ARE YOU CURRENTLY ASSIGNED OR ATTACHED
TO A RESERVE, NAT'L. GUARD OR ROTC TRAIN-
ING UNIT
X
14. HAVE YOU A MILITARY MOBILIZATION ASSIGN-
MENTI
NO
16. INDICATE TOTAL MILITARY SERVICE YEARS
MONTHS
FOR LONGEVITY PURPOSES INCLUD
ING ACTIVE AND INACTIVE DUTY Unknown
YES 13. IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED "YES" TO ITEM 12. GIVE UNIT OR AGENCY
AND ADDRESS
NO
YES IS. IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED "YES" TO ITEM 14, GIVE UNIT OR AGENCY
AND ADDRESS
17. WHERE ARE YOUR SERVICE RECORDS KEPT
Unknown
3/RS

14-00000
10
SECTION XI
FINANCIAL STATUS
YES
1. ARE YOU ENTIRELY DEFENDENT ON YOUR SALARY
2. IF YOUR ANSHER IS "NO" TO THE ABOVE, STATE SOURCES OF OTHER INCOME
Investments,
i
3 BANKING INSTITUTIONS WITH WHICH YOU HAVE ACCOUNTS
NAME OF INSTITUTION
Falls Church Bank
Banco Nacional de Mexico
4. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN IN, OR PETITIONED FOR, BANKRUPTCY.
CN
ADDRESS (City, State, Country)
Falls Church, Virginia
Mexico, D. F.
YES
XND
5. IF YOUR ANSWER IS "YES" TO THE ABOVE, GIVE PARTICULARS, INCLUDING COURT AND DATE/S)
Fails Church Bank
6. GIVE THREE CRECIT REFERENCES IN THE UNITED STATES
NAVE
ADDRESSNo., Street, City, State)
R.C. Bottling of Baltimore Baltimcre
Popular Dept, Store
29
Fans Church, Virginia
10
401 Eas: 30th S. Baltimore Md.
El Paso, Texas.
7. DO YOU RECEIVE AN ANNUITY FROM THE UNITED STATES OR DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA GOVERNMENT UNDER ANY RETIREMENT
ACT, PENSION, OR COMPENSATION FOR MILITARY OR NAVAL SERVICE
VES
8. IF YOUR ANSWER IS "YES" TO THE ABOVE QUESTION, GIVE COMPLETE CETAILS
XNO
:
9. DO YOU HAVE ANY FINANCIAL INTEREST IN, OR OFFICIAL CONNECTIONS WITH NON-U.S. CORPORATIONS OR BUSINESSES; OR IN
OF FITH U.S. CORPORATIONS OR BUSINESSES NAVING SUBSTANTIAL FOREIGN INTERESTST
YES
SECTION XII
NO
(Il anewer "YES", fumish details on separace sheet.)
MARITAL STATUS
1. PRESENT STATUS (Single, Marmed, Widowed, Separated, Divorced, or Annulled SPECIFY:
2. STATE DATE, PLACE, AND REASO FOR ALL SEPARATIONS, DIVORCES OR ANNULMENTS
Married
Ν.Α.
WIFE, HUSBAND If you have been married more than once
OR FIANCE:
3. NAME
(First)
Rachel
4. DATE OF MARRIAGE
Dec. 23, 1938
(Viddle)
Esther
Olasden)
including amulments use a separate sheet for former wife or
husband giving data required below for all previous marriages. If marriage contemplated, fill in appropriate
information for france.
(Last)
Williams
5. FEACE OF MARRIAGE (Cary, State. Cocenery)
10
Tucson, Arizona - Pima County U.S.A.
5. HIS ICR HERI ADDRESS BEFORE MARRIAGE (No.. Street, City, Stare. CourOTY)
3300 Hawthorne S:., Tucson, Ariz, U.S.A.
7. LIVING
NO
8 CATE OF CEATR
10 CURRENT ADDRESS (Gire lest address, if deceased)
Toluca Highway,
11. DATE OF BIRTH
2/13/1917 09
9. CAUSE OF DEATH
(Last)
Wichtrich
Klm, 19 1/2, El Magueyito, Cuajimalpa, Mexico. D.F., Mexico
12. PLACE OF BIRTH/City State, Counteri
Avocal Texas, U.S.A.
13. CITIZENSHIP
U.S.A.
10
SECTION XII CONTINUED TO PAGE 10

14-00000

SECTION ZII CONTINLED FROM PAGE 9
14. IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. DATE OF ENTRY
N.A.
16. FORMER CITIZENSHIPISI
Countrylles
Ν.Α.
19. OCCUPATION
15. PLACE OF ENTRY
N.A
17. DATE U.S. CITIZENSHIP 18. WHERE ACQUIRED (City. State, Country)
ACQUIRED
NA
Ν.Α.
20. PRESENT EMPLOYER (Also give foener employer, or if spouse deceased or
unemployed give Leer two employers)
Housewife
IN.A.
21. EMPLOYER'S OR BUSINESS ADDRESS (No. Street Cry. State, Country)
Ν.Α.
22. DATES OF MILITARY SERVICE (From and to 3y Mo and Yr)
N.A
23. BRANCH OF SERVICE
NA
4
24. COUNTRY WITH WHICH WILITARY SERVICE AFFILIATED
25. DETAILS OF OTHER GOVERNMENT SERVICE, U.S. OR FOREIGN
Ν.Α.
ΒΝ.Α.
SECTION XIII
CHILDREN AND OTHER DEPENDENTS
1. PROVIDE THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION FOR ALL CHILDREN AND DEPENDENTS
NAME
RELATIONSHIP
DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH
CITIZENSHIP
13-14-4069
John Allen Wichtrich 66 Son
Janet Rae Wichtrich 66 Daughter
3-5-1943709
Ellen Anne 06
Daughter
William Gus 06
Son
Tucson, Arizona U.S.A.
6-28-1948709
U.S.A.
Panama R.PU.S.A.
6-8-1950 509
Mexico. R.FU.S.A.
ADDRESS
Navy OCS
Newport, R. I.
Univ. of N. Mex.
Augugue, .w.
Mexico, D.F.
Mexico, D. F.
13-17-1955
09
Patricia Jean 06
Daughter Mexico, D. F.
U.S.A.
Mexico, D. F.
:
2. NUMBER OF CHILDREN Including rep-
children and adopted children) WHO ARE
UNMARRIED. UNDER 21 YRS. OF AGE,
AND NOT SELF-SUPPORTING.
4
3. NUMBER OF OTHER DEPENDENTS (Including spouse.
parente, ster-parents, arater, etc.) WHO DEPEND O
YOU FOR AT LEAST 50% OF THEIR SUPPORT. OR
CHILDREN CHED 21 YRS. OF AGE WHO ARE NOT
SELF-SUPPORTING.
FATHER (Give same information. for Stepfather and or Guardian ca a separate shvcij
SECTION XIV
FULL NAME (Lest-First-Middig)
Wichtrich, Gustaf
06
2. LIVING
YES
XNO
3. DATE OF DEATH
Feb. 1950?
14. CAUSE OF DEATH
Pneumonia
5
5. CURRENT ADDRESS - Give last address, if deceased (No., Street, City, State, Country)
Willcox, Arizona
6. DATE OF BIRTH
1864
17. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country)
9. IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S.DATE OF ENTRY
Unknown
11. FORMER CITIZENSHIP(S)
Country (les)
German
14. OCCUPATION
Owner, Sheetmetal Shop
Germany
10. PLACE OF ENTRY
Unknown
B. CITIZENSHIP
:
U.S.
10
12. DATE U.S. CITIZENSHIP 13. WHERE ACQUIRED (City, State, Country)
COULTRED
-15-23
Tombstone, Cochise Co., Arizona
15. PRESENT EMPLOYER (Game-test employer, it Father is deceased or unemployed)
Ν.Α.
16. EMPLOYER'S BUSINESS ADDRESS OR FATHER'S BUSINESS ADDRESS IF SELF-EMPLOYED.
Willcox Arizona (1
17. DATES OF MILITARY SERVICE (From-and-To) 18. BRANCH OF SERVICE
Ν.Α.
Ν.Α.
20. DETAILS OF OTHER GOVERNMENT SERVICE, U.S. OR FOREIGN
19. COUNTRY
Ν.Α.
Ν.Α.

SECTION XV
MOTHER (Give same andrration for Stepmother on separate sheets
2. LIVING
3 CATE OF DEATH
VES
1. FULL NAME (LastFirst-Maddle)
Esparza Fermina
06
XNO
Feb. 1951
5-CURRENT ADDRESS GIVELLAST ADDRESS