104-10169-10269 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DIRECTOR
RETURN
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
SECRET

MAVANA
DEC 23 22322 60
DUQUE
C/BELL 13 (HR CROLLER, WH DIV NOTIFIED 1800 23 CEC)
DOP, COP, ADGP/A, WH. 3, S/C 2
PRIORITY

IN 21843

FRITY WAVE INFO PRITY DIR CITE HAVA 7288
JMZIP AVT
03
1. ON 23 DEC ROBERT M. GEDDES (WHO WORKS WITH AMPAN-22) CONTACTED
06
CO AFTER FAILURE TO MEET RALPH DIAZ HANSCOM AND ASKED CO DELIVER
SPECIAL AIRDROP MAP TO MIAMI FOR "CLARENCE".
03
2. GEDDES EXPLAINED THAT HE HAD TALKED WITH "CLARENCE", IN
MIAMI AND WAS TOLD THAT EARLIER DROP MAP BROUGHT BY VILLALON
06
S NOT SUITABLE. NEW MAP IS IN INDIA INK PREPARED BY ENGINEER
06,00
CRESPO WHO HEAD PUBLIC WORKS DEPT IN CIENFUEGOS. CRESPO PASSED
03
MAP TO MARO BOLANG WHO GAVE TO GEDDES GEDDES SAID, AIR DROP
03
SPECIAL FOR LIMAS, RAMIREZ, MONTIEL. AND PORTION FOR DUQUE.
3 GEDDES SAID PRELIMINARY DROP SIGNALS WOULD CONSIST ONE RED LIGHT,
DONE WHITE LIGHT, ONE RAD LIGHT ABOUT IS FT

DISTANCE APART, CLOCKWISE MOVEMENT OF LIGHTS INDICATE PREPARED
TO RECEIVE. GROUP REQUESTING ARMS AND AMMUNITION FOR 423 MEN
PLUS 100 PISTOLS. ALSO EXTRA ANMO FOR THOSE ALREADY IN PLACE.
06
3. MAP BEING SENT WAVE DY COURIER ARRIVING 24 DEC.
03
4. GEDDES SAID THAT HE WOULD CONTACT HECTOR FEBLES (FR 3-1982)
مه
OR ARRIVAL SINCE TEBLES HAD DIRECT CONTACT WITH "CLARENCE".
FILED 23/17507
D6
06
Jungalez Corz callo
security nun
END OF MESSAGE FEB
SECRET
due love of discipline
AAVA 7286 127 Decor

BEPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THit ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy Ne

18
