14-00000
104-10262-10385
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

C

beadultera traces
ACTION RACIRED: TI
ALFERENCE:
CPCA-24799

1. Berdquarters traces on the Subjects of reference and the
Badson Institute follow:

A. Alberto LLEMAS Crasго (201-102576) was born in Bogota,
3 July 1908. He left school at the age of seventeen to becases
Journalist. Xe traveled to Argention and lived in Buenos Aires for
three years (1926-29) writing for various Argentina periodicsls.
His political career began upon his return to Colombia in 1939,
when he was appointed secretary of the itboral Party (1930-33) and
received tremendous impetus under the regis of Alfonso LOPKE,
Liberal Party leader and former President of Colombia (1936-38 DC
1962-43). tubetiy, LEKRAS carved in the National House of
Representatives (1931-34), then elfonso LOPEZ was inaugurated Pred-
ident in 1034, be tong Likas into his goverment as Secretary
General of the Presidency (1934-35), red later made him Minister of
Coverkhout tree 1943 to 1945. The letter year be vao made Minister
of Foreign Affairs, as well as first Vice President of Colombis.
liis public service culminated then in his accession to the Presi-
doccy on the resignation of President LOPEZ ia 1945. After dia-
charging the datics of Chief Executive for a year (1945-46), LLERAS
was clected Secretary General of the Pan American Union in 1947, s
post which he hold until 1954. Ko then resigned and returned to
Colombia to accept the position of Rector (President) of the
University of The Andes (1955-56). Devoting himself once again to
politics, LLERAS began writing a column in the Liberal Daily 1
Espectador. In bis columna be strongly criticized the Rojas regine
and called for the return of constitutional government in
Colombia, In March 1958, he was elected President of the Liberal.
Perty and shortly thereafter (June 1986) travelled to Spain and 226.
conversations with Laureano CONE, a leader of the Conservative
Party and former President of Colombia (1950-53). These two polit-
ical leadera eigned a senifesto copdeaning the Rojas regime and

(CONTINUED)

201-102576

-
1/C/R2/08
VH/C/KSRC
201-308736
UFOW-6130

8.C...
801-30073
NE/C/RR/08 V. Ullery rat 23 Aug 60
VE/C/RR
WE/C/HO
H/C/CA/PP

:
C/VE/C
Ortman (phone)
Gonzales (draft)
:
Thomas J. Fleres
14-00000

::
SECX
7-10
lises for the most of a coalition corneant in Colombia
Carough bi-partiusa Itarts. true lovuar 1956 to fabruery 1857
رة فالفناned as a faites Extiosa Observer to investigate the immgaria
siseptic.

LLATAS is described na a champion of the Pan American ceuvo
and se being very friendly to the United States and a firm believer
is the bestwa type comoarssy.

Altbourt he did not complote his education and has no formal
degree, be has long been addressed na "doctor" as a matter of courtesy
En does, bovever, have bonorary degrees frem several Colombian univer
sities as well as free the University of California. Eo cpeeks
Maglish and french, te married to the former Berte PEGA (daughter of a
late Procident of Chile) and han four childres.

On_24-February-1958 Son Operational Approval was granted for
Sthe utilization of Lit is supporting a special operation. Bovever,
before the operation was izplemented, Lis_vs_elected_President of
Colombis. There has been so operational interest in him since,

B. Those are so Bevtquarters of LFE:00 traces on the Redson
Institute per se, however, LEREGO files contain derogatory information
en several soubers of the institute which LEKRGO vill furnish WOFACT
if ve specify which of the noubers are of interest. If JENATE visbed
this done, please advise on which of the members information is r
quested.

C. There are no identifiable traces on the other ejects
of paragraph & of reference.

2. Esedquarters defers to JEWAVE regarding AMRASZ/1's future
association with the institute.
::
Distributions
Orig. & 2 - COS, JIHATE
MOVARD E. COLLRARY
