104-10227-10153 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

26 September 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director (Plans)

SUBJECT: Report on Cuban Operations for Period 1-15 September 61

This is the second summary report of activities in Cuban operations, and covers the period 1-15 September 1961. This report will consist of a breakdown of such operations into the principal categories of activity.

A. FI-CI Activity

1. Reporting to Headquarters. There was a total of twenty-eight reports received during the period, and they consisted of the following: Nine from reverse, fifteen from debriefings conducted in the Miami area, two via the open mail, and two reports via diplomatic courier. Additionally, eleven CI reports are passed to the FBI, and 1,017 CI name checks were processed for FBI.

2. Agent Activities and Developments

a. There was a total of eighteen agents within Cuba at the beginning of the reporting period and twenty-four by the period’s close.

b. Comment: of the seven agents dispatched legally during the period, one agent was a revuresee. These agents should provide increased coverage of anti-Castro groups, activities at the airport and new entrants into the diplomatic community.

c. Four agents were recruited and two agents were terminated during the period.

d. In cooperation with the German desk, we have initiated an operation to debrief Cuban sailors who pass through the area. Clearances have been obtained for two Cubans who will act as coordinators for the operation.

e. AVCELT-1, a Uruguayan diplomat, has been recruited and has agreed to act as a courier for the intel net in Cuba. The agent is currently on his way to Cuba via boat.

f. ANVOT-34, the principal agent/VT operator, using signal plan OGAKIK, returned to Cuba via legal means on 9 September and was once again in radio communication with us as of 10 September. He is in contact with ANWRBH-1, the principal agent of what remains of our intelligence net in Cuba.

g. Control of the CGARIR W/T Communication link was passed to WAVE from Headquarters effective 14 September.

h. AMPALM-I was dispatched to Geneva to attempt to recruit Raul CASTRO Bonilla, Minister of the National Bank of Cuba, who is presently attending the Sugar conference in Switzerland.

i. Jesus LOPEZ Guerrara, Cuban airline pilot who is disaffected with the Castro regime, is in contact with the Madrid station and has agreed to cooperate and remain in place.

j. Arrangements are being made for a technical surveillance of the charge office in the Cuban Embassy, Montevideo.

B. Propaganda Activity

1. Major Efforts

a. Operation Bolivar. Designed to place sixty student/ agents of the Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE) exile group in universities throughout the Western Hemisphere. Progress: Three in place and twenty-one are processing.

b. Operation Virgen del Cobre. Designed to exploit the 8 September anniversary of the Cuban patron saint as a day of mourning expressing opposition to Castro’s attacks upon the church, religious freedom, and Cuban freedom. Progress: All local and Western Hemisphere assets alerted for the 8 September campaign. Sixty-five thousand pieces of propaganda were distributed for mailing throughout Latin America. The Cruzada Fentaina Cobena (CFC) Miami’s group sent eight cables and 110 letters in the Latin American area. Through the joint efforts of the CFC and Catholica, mass and benediction services were held before 25,000 people in the Miami stadium. It was said to be a huge success.

c. After the recent Castro executions, an amnesty campaign was initiated on behalf of political and military prisoners in Cuba. Progress: One hundred and eight cables and 220 letters were sent to Latin America by the Cuban affiliate groups.

2. Broadcasts

a. The Avance newspaper sponsored twenty-four thirty minute programs over WLOD, Miami, targeted against northern Havana and Matanzas provinces on general anti-Castro themes. Seven broadcasts one and one half hours daily over short and medium wave.

b. We support a Cuban exile group producing a weekly thirty minute tape for distribution to a number of Caribbean basin stations, and a weekly fifteen minute tape for distribution through LAAB channels to Central and South American stations. At present some seventy stations participate in this operation.

c. WAVE has assumed contact role with local offices of Swan and radio broadcaster Luis CORTE Aguero through cutout.

d. Beginning 11 September, Luis CONTE Aguero began short wave broadcasts of thirty minutes daily on five frequencies beamed to all Central and South America and Caribbean basin.

e. Maritime broadcasts were cancelled for period for vessel maintenance. An electronic engineer has been hired and construction of TV intrusion equipment has begun. This equipment will be used on the maritime broadcast and be targeted against the Havana area.

f. Cuban Freedom Committee funded and directed two hours daily over WGBS, Miami, and six hours daily over WKWF, Key West.

3. Leaflets/Pamphlets. Production and distribution throughout the Western Hemisphere by sources:

a. Cuban exile groups:
1) DRE - 10,000
2) CPC - 15,000
3) FORD - 20,000

b. WAVE printed 4,000 Grandes Mentiras (Big Lies) as first of a series.

4. Periodicals

a. Avance, weekly newspaper: Two editions, 40,300 WH circulation.

b. Information newsletter, weekly: Two editions, 4,540 circulation.

c. DRE Trinchera: One edition, 2,500 WH circulation.

d. APJ Bulletin: Two editions, 16,000 WH circulation.

e. CNC Bulletin: One edition, 5,000 WH circulation.

f. FORD Bulletin: One edition, 5,000 WH circulation.

g. El Mundo, weekly newspaper: 3,000 per week in Dominican Republic.

MEMOFOR DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLAN)
SUBJECT: REPORT ON CUBAN OPERATIONS : 1-15 SEPT OF 1961

b. Bohemia Libre, weekly magazine of over 170,000 WH circulation.

5. Tours and Travel - Cuban Group Representation

a. DRE. Two tours covering Brasil, Uruguay, Argentina, and Chile.

b. CFC. Two tours covering Chile, Bolivia, Argentina, Peru, Ecuador, Colombia and Panama.

c. Ferique MOISSA. To Rio medical congress.

d. Arrangements are in process to send a small variety troupe to Mexico for propaganda values. The performance will be filmed on 16 km for subsequent general use throughout Latin America.

e. Arrangements were made with the State Department by WH/4/Security for the facilitation of re-entry into the United States of long-term Cuban assets dispatched on propaganda tours of Central and South America.

6. Other Activities. Headquarters representative met with Rojas Santamarina, and discussed his plan for MAITOR project, i.e., establishment of phantom cells inside Cuba through medics of propaganda chain letters. Headquarters is studying the idea with a view to possible trial-run on a small scale.

C. Political Action Activity

1. CRC. A meeting was held 9 September with Dr. Miro Cardona at which time he was advised by higher authority that our Government regards the CRC as the control point of contact in its dealing with the Cuban exile and underground activity. A basic administrative budget will be allocated, and it will be in the neighborhood of a million dollars per year. All other allocations of money will be on the basis of specific projects submitted by the Council and approved by the United States. The Cuban Council will continue to broaden its base allowing entry of all substantial exile groups not identified with Batista or with

Communism. Groups not willing to work with the Council will be dealt with bilaterally (the United States and the group involved), but Dr. Miro will be kept informed of these activities. Such information will be kept in the strictest secrecy by Dr. Miro and his specially appointed assistant. If this arrangement should prove insecure, such contacts will terminate, All problems arising from Council activities will be discussed between the CEC and the Bureau of ARA of State Department. Dr. Miro will maintain his contact with the White House for cases wherein he considers such contact to be urgently necessary.

2. Additional Political Developments. After high level United States consideration and decision, Dr. Miro was informed, at a meeting on 16 September, that the responsibility for the organization and plans for exile Cuban jurists and Lawyers would be his. In addition, to the future funding "salaries" of the existing ALABAU organization, $5,000 per month would be provided Dr. Miro or his designee retroactive to 1 August to support Dr. Miro’s election of Lawyers to whom he has a long outstanding commitment. It was emphasized that this transfer of responsibility must be accomplished harmoniously, without adverse press reaction, or support of this work would be withdrawn. Col. Wendell Johnson was hired and will be placed in contact with Dr. Miro prior to 1 October. He will function as the day-to-day contact between Dr. Miro and this Agency and the United States Government. It was made clear to Dr. Miro that his demand for responsibility as exclusive channel to the other professional groups, i.e., students and labor, was rejected. He was told that any proposals he might wish to make in the student and labor fields would be welcomed as promoting harmony and eventual unity of Cuban exile anti-Castro elements.

D. Paramilitary Activity

1. Maritime Activity

a. Eight vessels, four Agency owned and four Cuban owned, are available to support this activity. Of the eight vessels, five were operational and three were undergoing repairs during the period. The principal activity during the period revolved around preparation and support of operation YEABAC, to be implemented 16 September.

b. The LCI, BARBARA-J, is now awaiting additional engineering and electrical work at the Jan Juan Drydock Company. Delay has been caused by the lack of priority and the induction of several Navy ships requiring urgent repairs.

c. Captain TIRADO has spotted a complete crew for the BARBARA J and crew names and biographic date have been submitted to Headquarters for clearance.

d. The Cover and Commercial staff is engaged in providing for the ships registration, name change, and cover mechanism to allow for future funding and operation.

2. Agent Activities and Developments

a. There was a total of forty-two !!! assets involved in activities during the period. Inside Cuba there are two agents, a principal agent and a radio operator. Externally, there were forty agent assets composed of thirty-five FI types and five radio operators.

b. Approval was granted for the passage of BS-6 radio gear complete with signal plan, pads and crystals into Cuba via AMELESS-3 channels which utilize a foreign diplomatic courier.

c. Approval was granted for the conduct of operation STIKE, an exfiltration operation to be implemented 21 September.

d. On 9 September seven ANMARIE agents were terminated leaving a total of thirty in the group.

e. The internal PA/VT operator ENRIQUE using signal plan MUTLOX reports that his group has been operating a clandestine radio broadcast since 12 September (Radio

Training

Libertad) on 40 meter band from 1300 to 1315 local time on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. We are attempting to verify this claim, and an announcement will be made over Voice of America as to the existence of the broadcasts.

E. Training

1. Agents trained by close of period 15 September

a. Total number of agents trained: 15
b. Total number of agents in training: 26

2. FI-CI

a. Agents trained in 3N: 2
b. Agents trained in tradecraft: 4

3. PA-PROP

a. Agents trained in exit/prop: 4
b. Agents in training in exit/prop: 9 (Includes two W/T radops.)

c. Agents ready for training: 12

4. Paramilitary

a. Agents in training: 17

b. Type of training: Small boat handling, reception, reconnaissance techniques.

F. Communications - Agent Type

1. Messages. VT: 15 total - 12 received, 3 sent by WAVE.

G. Support

1. Hoops

a. WAVE. Nineteen staff agents were processed at Headquarters and dispatched PCS to WAVE bringing the total of PCS personnel to 23 at the close of the period. The renovation of new offices at WAVE is complete.

b. RTO. Now has responsibility for relaying all traffic to and from WAVE and crypto relay responsibility for all BAR traffic. The Office of Communications has received their approved T/O for RT and have commenced personnel actions on approximately fifty personnel assigned at this installation.

c. The transfer of JEVIC to the Office of Logistics

1) Mr. Glee Laney, WH/4/Logistics, is now at AFIO for the purpose of adjusting the inventory pending arrangements to be made to transfer all MI material held by AFIO to Supply Division, Office of Logistics.

2) The Fleming staff, Office of Logistics, has acted as coordinator in matters pertaining to personnel, finance, cover and security, the majority of which have been or will be settled shortly.

3) Present plans contemplate the release of JEVIC to the Office of Logistics on 1 October 1961.

d. All materiel at JEVIC has been inventoried and prepared for shipment. Although the intended carrier, the ship JOHAN, arrived at JEVIC on 13 September, loading was delayed due to the presence of foreign shipping in the area. It is anticipated that loading will commence on or about 18 September and will be completed within four days.

e. MBARR. A draft of a lease agreement for the MBARR property has been prepared and forwarded to the owner of the real estate for final approval.

2. Finance

a. Answers have been received from various sources regarding our queries for new Cuban pesos. Two sources are in the process of procuring pesos in the amount of $10,000 U.S. dollars.

b. The funding for JANSK is in process. Mr. Fall, WH/4/Finance, is at WAVE to establish a commercial set of records for maintenance by the field office.

c. Total FY 1962 obligations through 15 September for Cuban operations are $4,675,933.00. Of this total, $1,674,775.00 represents payments for the maintenance of the CRC and payments for dependants of the strike force through September.

There is a special intelligence annex to this report, "Counter revolutionary Activities in Cuba," for the period 1-15 September, issued separately.

J. C. KING
Chief,
Western Hemisphere Division

DDP/WH/4/Plans:W.R.Dinsmore,bh (27 September 1961)

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee
1 - C/OPC
1 - A/DDP/A
1 - C/WTD
1 - WH/COP3
1 - C/WH/A
2 - WH/4/Plans
