14-00000
104-10183-10022
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FROM: DIRECTOR
CLASSIFIED, MESSAGE
ROUTING
DOP, CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, CCS 2, FI, cc 4, sas 8, RF 2
ROUTIN
62932
ackground Us
RETURN TO CIA
KEYWAY PERUNER
ROMB 9965 (IN 01475)
2
RECE TALKS WITH AMMHIP 1 IN NEW YORK RB TRAVEL PLANS INDICATE PLANS
BUSINESS TRIPS EUROPE THREE FOUR TIMES ANNUALLY SPENDING CIRCA TWO WEEKS EACH
TRIP IN ITALY. ROUTINE BUSINESS HATTERS CAN BE EXPECTED OCCUPY CONSIDERABLE
PORTION HIS TIME IN ITALY. WHILE AMIHIP 1 CONSIDERED ASTUTE ASSET WITH GOOD
POSSIBILITIES ACCESS PERUNEN TARGETS ITALY, HOS DOUBTFUL HE CAN MEET STA NEEDS
FOR ET WED IS READILY AVAILABLE FOLLOW UP LEADS, DEVELOP CLOSE RAPPORT TARGET
PERSONALITIES IN RESIDENCE OR IN TRANSIT, MAKE PITCHES WHEN CHANCE ARISES.
NECESSARILY LONG INTERVALS BETWEEN HIS STAYS ITALY WILL BREAK RHYTHM OF OP
DEVELOPMENT AND MAKE HIM UNAVAILABLE TO ASSESS RECRUIT SIEN LEND MATUTES
MATTER OF WEER
2. ALSO SINCE HOS USES ANWHIP 1 OTHER AREA OPERATIONS IT NECESSARY GUARD
AGAINST CONTAMINATING HIS CLEAN REPUTATION WITH PARUCH FEGDE THROUGH COM
MENDABLE BUT OVERLY ZEALOUS EFFORTS HIS PART TO DO HOST FOR STA IN THE AVAILABLE.
FII, WHILE CONSIDERED SHREND SOPHISTICATED, HE HAS TOUCH OF СС:СЯ ТЕРЦЕ
A
WEAKNESS OF BELIEVING HAND WILL NEVER EE CAUGHT IN COCKIE JAR AND CAN ALWAYS
EXTRICATE SRLY WITH PLAUSIBLE DENIAL.
B-B-C-R-E-
REPRODUCTION EXOTHER

14-00000
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
PAGE TWO
CUR SIA DECISION PUMARIEGA.
NAL DECISION BELL,
ISH SUGGEST
T ANOTHER POSSIBILJET,
TEN C OF DIR 44488,
JUME 63.
CHAS FOA, IS VOUCHED FOR BY
ANNEIP 1, AND EXPECTS TRAVEL ROME AT LEAST ONE WERK PER MONTH TO ATTEND TO
ANNEIP STORE NEGATIVE FACTORS ARE HE IS UNKNOWN QUANTITY TO TO KUBAFX AFX REGARDING FEC
OP POTENTIAL SUTTABILITY FOR AND INTEREST IN CLANDESTINE ACTIVITIES. ON
POSITIVE SIDE, AMHIP 1 SAYS HE MOTIVATED HELP ANTI-REGINE ACTIVITY, AND HE
PROBABLY PERSOKA GRATA PIRUMEN TYPES ON SAME BASIS AS AMMIP SIKI, UNLIKE
B
OF DEFECT PUBLICALLY AND NOT BEEN OVERILY ACTIVE ANTI-RGES MOVEMENTS.
FURNER, HIS PROXIMITY ROME AND FREQUENT VISITS WOULD GIVE STA CEASCS TRY HIN
OUT ΒΕΡΟΙΣ ΟΘHMATHSRTS AND IF STA FINDS HAS APTITUDE AND IS VEICONS PERUENS
ITALY, HE COULD EE CALLED DOWN ON ON SPUR OF HORNETT FOR SPECIFIC DEVΞΟΡ Σ
ADDITECH TO FEGULAR VISI
MAIN POSLEDS WITH BELL APPEAR TO BE (A) LACK PROOF HIS ACCEPTABILITY
ん
CAPERS (D) COVER TO
USED LIS PETKARTICE ROME,
RING CINTER
KINDLE GROUND BETWEEN ANTHIP 1 AND SELL, COVER IS ALREAST ESTABLISIED
ADELE FOR KEOULAR DEVELOPMENT, TANGENS, ACCEPILLET 20
SRUNKS AND
WIMOUT PAK
L

*14-00000
OM, DIRECTOR
ANCEL
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
8-B-C-R-
DEFERRE
ROUTINE
CHE DR 62932
IP STA WISHES CHECK IIDEN C OUT, RECOMETID FOLLOW UP BOONEST SINCE
せ
STILL VISH PALL BACK ON BELL, SUGEST STA OFFICER SHOULD TRAVEL SUISSE VISIT
IDEN C OUTLINE PROPOSALS, HOTE HOWEVER HOS DOES HOT WISH AM/HIP 1 HAME SE USKD.
REALIZE THIS MAKES APPROACH BIT HORE DIFFICULT BUT BELIEVE IDEN C WELL AMARB
ODYOKE MIKREST OBTAIN HELP ALL POSSIBLE SOURCES PERUMEN OPS AND WILL ACCEPT
STORY HIS NAME AROSE DURING CHECK BY ODYOKE OF PERUMEN EXILES RESIDENT
NEIGHBORING COUNTRIES AND VISITING ITALY PERIODICALLY. THOUCH KUARK SUISSE
STA DECIDES VISIT
HAS DO CONTACT IDEN C, PLS CABLE CABLE BEEN GIVA INFO DIR PLANNING IP STA
IDEN C AND COORDINACK ON ARRIVAL SINCE THEY HAY WISH USE LOCALLY IN ADDITION TO
OR IN LIEU OF ITAL USE.
FYI: IF IDEN C UNSUITABIR AND WISH PROCEED WITH BELL, BELIEVE
ESSENTIAL SEND HIM ROME TEY PRIOR FINAL COMMITMENT TO ASCKIGAIN CAPABILITIES
AND ACCEPTABILITY PARUNEES THERE, WHILE FINAL COVER FOR RESIDENCE WOULD BE
IESPONSIBILITY STA AND DEVIGIL, WOULD ATTEMPT ARRANGE COVER FOR TOY TUROUGH
KUVEST. KUVEST INDICATES SUCH COVER POSSIBLE THOUGH HAVE FOT TALKED CONCRE
TERUG FENDING DECISION
prefers
ED FOR BELL
END OF HEESSAGE
better reading
//
