14-00000
104-10192-10229
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

SECOSY
ESE
ALTIGR
2
RID COPY
σι, μερεμh Fl, 5006, cesa Eus, sphe, scd 20/3
170543 CITE JAVE 3413
7011011050
DIRECTOR
BELLA NAPELI
TYPIC
1. EVENING 5 OCTOBER ORLANDO BOSCH GIVEN THREE YEAR
SUSPENDED SENTENCE BY NAPLES/COURT WHEN FOUND GUILTY OF
TRANSPORT ING EXPLOSIVES WITHOUT LICENSE IN APRIL 66. T५०
COMPANIONS TO BE TRIED SEPARATELY.
2.
a
EVENINGS OCTOBER AMOT REPORTED THAT ANTAUP-2 HAD
BEEN TELEPHONED EY JORGE CUITERREZ ULLA, CHIEF OF
PROPAGANDA OF HIRR, TO ATTEND PRESS CONFERENCE & OCTOBER,
IA
?
AKIFUP 2 ALSO PEPORTED THAT AT TRAAL JORGE VEGA, SOSCH
DEFENSE ATTORNEY, HAD MADE STATEMENT TO COURT TO EFFECT THAT
3000 SHOULD NOT BE CONVICTIO CECAUSE HE WAS TRYING TO FREE
AND FROM COMMUNIST DOMINATION AND IN DOING SO VAS HOT
५
ACT ING ANY MORE ILLEGALLY THAN WAS MOFACT, WHICH HAS
CONDUCTING SAME TYPE OF ACTIVITY" FROM A BASE LOCATED AT
THE CAYO GORDO SECTION OF NAPLES.
3. "CAYO GORDO UNDOUBTEDLY IS GARBLE FOR SOKOCH PASS
AREA OF NAPLES AT WHICH SERTHING SITE FOR JABAVE MARX I SWIFT
Vi
:
SECRET

14-00000
N
7
::
WEIT LOCATED. HOWEVER, TIGGER MAS
BER WHEN REMOVED FOR OFS
NAS CODED SETURN TO CERTH CIRCA 1
OCTORESPONDO BECAUSE OF HURRICANE INEZ,
רכס ירכיי יי שמחות, KOY LARGO, WILL NOT
DE RETURN ARO ASI, AS RES AWARE LATTER SITE
ALRLE SODULED FOR TERMINATION OCTOCER-SOVEMBER 66.
4.
/
UPON RECEIPI AMOT INFO JMWAVE CONTACTED AND BRIFFED
AGENTS SERVING AS CUSTODIANS AT NAPLES SITS, TO DATE THEY
HAVE NOT REPORTED ANY QUERIES. OFFICIALS OF COVER CORPORATION,
29
GULFLANT WHICH CUNG RIGGER AND RENTS BERTHING SITE VERE
ALERIE IN REEFER ОСТОВЕР.
5.
2
MORNING G40010358 AMTAUP-2 REPORTED PRESS CONFERENCE
Re: WEST MAAN PUT THAT GUTIERREZ STATED HE HAD PHOVED UPI,
AFRALD TO GIVE THEM PRESS RELEASE INCLUDING VEGA
CLAIM RE KOF OT ACTIVITIES NAPLES AREA.
6. A 1836 OCTOFER STATION HAD NOT SEEN ANY
25 OF ALLEGED VEGA STATEMENTS, KIAMI HERALD
AND MONG MACE OF TRAIL DID NOT MENTION
ECKING NAFLES PECSS COVERAGE OF TRIAL.
SECKET
14-00000
i
PAGE 3 JOVAN ALECRET
7.
2.
AT GUTIERREZ REQUEST AMTAUP-2 TAPED STATEMENT FOR
RADIO PROCRAM, REVIEW OF STATEMENT BY ANOT SHOWS THAT
WOFACT NOT PENTIONED.
3. ALTHO NO FIRM EVIDENCE TO DATE ANTICIPATE THAT
YIPP MAY STEX PUBLICIZE FURTHER "REVELATIOONS RE JOWAVE
ACTIVITY, NOTABLY RE COMBINED OPS FACILISTIES, ACTIVITIES,
PERSONNEL. INFO FROM AMOT AND OTHER CONTACTS IN EXILE
COMMUNITY INDICATES FELIPE RIVERO AND HIS ANC GROUP ALSO
K
3
TALING OF "EXPOSING" WOFACT ACTIVITIES. STATED AIM OF
BOTH GROUPS IS TO SHOW "TVO-FACED ATTITUDE OF U.S. GOVT
WHICH STOPS ANTI-COMMUNIST EXILE FIGHTERS FROM USING U.S.
3
AS BASE FOR ACTION AGAINST CASTRO CUBA BUT ALLOYS WOFACT TO
CARRY OUT SUCH ACTIVITY. FURTHER AIMS ARE TO SHOW EXILE
COMMUNITY THAT MIRR AND ANC ARE "ACTIVIST GROUPS AS COMPARED
WITH OTHER EXILE ORGS AND TO RIDICULE AND TRY INTIMIDATE THOSE
CUSANS WHO WORK FOR JMWAVE,
:
9. STATION EVALUATES INCIDENT AS HAVING NO SIGNIFICANT
ADVERSE EFFECT ON OPS OR GENERAL STATION SECURITY. STATION
HAS DIRECTED INCREASED STATE OF VIGILANCE AT ALL COMBINED
OPS SITES BUT DOES NOT ENVISAGE ANY BASIC CHANGES IN COVER
SECRET

14-00000
N
Sucher
PGCEDURES WHICH HAVE PROVIDED PEQUIRED
SENSITIVE DATA RE COMBINED OPS.
SECRET
18
בן
