14-00000
104-10164-10050 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

14-00000
Los conf!LM LAL
NT MONE GIVIN
F 105-112 (MIANE)
NTS
PATKE OCTOBER 1968
CLASSICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
FBX
MERR
NO 105-2855 (MIAΜΙ)
DATE: SEPTEMBER 1968
CLASSICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SURA MIRR (GROUP OF ORLANDO BOSCH AVIZA)
FBI
NO: 105-2855 (MIAMI)
DATE: 18 SEPTEMBER 1968
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBT BOMBING ACTIVITIES BY CUBAN EXILES
FBE FILE NO: 105-2855
DATE: SEPTEMBER 1968
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SULT: CUBAN POWER (PC)
MIKR
FRI FILE NO: 105-15556; 105-2855 (MIAMI)
DATE: 12 SEPTEMBER 1968
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUASIOST UNKNOWN SUBJECTS, THREE MEN ALLEGED TO
HAVE LEFT THE NEW YORK AREA AUG 16 68
TO PLACE A BOMB NEAR THE WHITE HOUSE...
FEIFFER NOI NONE GIVEN (NEW YORK)
DATE: 23 BEPT 1968 CLASS DONNE SECRET
BUATEC CUBAN POWER (PO)
FRI FILE NO, NONE GIVEN
(LOS ANGELES)

14-00000
LATES
CLASSIFICATIOst
sarisa et al.
PET FILE NO 60110 (MIANE)
14:29 1
CLASSIFICATION LENT LAL
BHI, AM HER CUBANO (CUBAN RE
No 1933 (MIANE)
DATE: 28 AUGUST 1968
CLASSIFICATIONS CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: MIRR, ALSO KNOWN AS CURAN POWEX
FBI FILE NOI 105-2855 (ΜΙΑΜΙ)
DATE: 18 AUGUST 1968
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: MIRR, AKA CUBAN POWER
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (MIAMI)
DATE: 16 AUGUST 1968 (EXCERPT - COPY AVAILABLE
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
IN IP/AR)
SUBJECT: UNKNOWN SURJECT; EXPLOSION IN ENGINE
ROOM OF BRITISH FREIGHTER "GRANWOOD"...
MAY 68
FBI FILE NO: 45-1156 (ΜΙΑΜΙ)

14-00000
L
DISPATCH
Diet of bratat
Dist. Besters Breleptere Bris
Crisis of a Telegras Cancersing the Borisiente lamsreccional in
Orlando
Avila
Action: Pasas City: 8 Dee Paragraph &
City or Jحص(
References: A. DSC-23308, dated 15 July 1968
B. DOC-33433, dated 23 July 1968
(Hot sont Panam
(Bot cont Passe
City or JBODA)
1. The Boviatcato Insurreccional de Recuperacia
Revolus caeris (81-insurrectional Hovenost of Revolutionary
Recovery) is an anti-Fidel Castro organisation of Catan estice
heedquartered in tant, Florida, under the leadership of
Orlande busch Avile, who has been involved in numerous revole-
tionary acte, some of which have involved violence. He allegedly
iscuss press release and other communications which are signed
"Erneste, General Delegate, Cabin Pover,
3.7 July 1968, the following communication was sent
via via Tropical Tropical Radio Telegraph Company, Panama City, Panama, to
the Anscelated Press in Miami, as follows:
"OADSRO
A TEP118 VIA TETSCEC REAL17 XEСКС КРАЗНЗ РЕЗО
UTHI NL PAPA 54
PANANARD VIATROPICAL 54 7 1830
Distribution:
MR TED EDIGER
ABECCIATED PERSS
2125 BISCAYNE BLVD
KIAKI/FLA
WING MIAMI VITAL CENTER CUBAN EXILES WE INPORN YOU
SCUBAN POWER IS FULLY RESPONSIBLE BABOTAGES HAVANA'S
FICO OIL RETINERY AND CINTE'S FEED FACTORY STOP ALL
MR SAFE STOP CONSIDERASOES LOSSES AND DAMAGES ON
COVERDENT PROPERTY STOP HAVARA MAKING LONG REPORT ON
BAKAGES STOP
"ERKESTO
0a1-005, Panama City
DISPATCH STARBUL AND NUMBER
OFFICE
CLASSIFICATION
DATE
20-299292
12 AUG 1968
Typed: 7 August 1968
HOS FILE NUMBER
ORIGINATING
mo??
Y
TYPIST
cson
COORDINATING
201-29929
ni
OFFICER'S MAM
EXT.
AN2
OFFICE SYMBOL
DATE
CI/LS
a
53 USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
MFQ. 1-66
Art Kamm (In Draft
I. Roman
BELFASING
QYIKE STARDOL
DATE
OFFICER'S SIGNA
C/WH/2
1401
uneel
Edwin M. arrell
DISPATCH

14-00000
L
COAC
• CPB 2125
API FIREa.
• 10007ET
of his organization 10 Promo,
Investigatim reflects that
a
has a friend or repressstasiw
scaress ADOUR.
un telephoned of
Circonstances indicate that BOB
cablegrammed this indivious! on or about ? July 1966, tru
Blast, Norida, requesting that the store-casted telegrsa be
trananti tos.
3. Headquarters received the shore informatics fres
LEERGO sccompanied by a request to initiate appropriate
tageirios in Paasma City to an eftert to determine the sender
of the aforementioned tremission and also to alcover it
Orisade Bar Avila or one of his inmediate samocistes nay
have been responsible for having this manage cont, LAERGO
cautioned that its role as the source of the stove la formation
should not be revealed in making the requested Jaquiries,
though the data itself could be utilised.
4. feasible, it is requested that JUCOBRA check its
sources and report any information which connects DOSCH or say
of his ansociates with the trasmission of the above-quoted
telegram.
Alice & Bis
Alice J. BORCHSENIUS
CALLIFICATION
PACL NO.
FORM
064
1401
534
USE PREVIOUS EDITION,
CONTINUED

14-00000
:
FIOMY'S
DATE: 15 LY 128
CLASSIFICATION: HONE GIVEN
SUUESTI MIKЙ, АКА СUBAN POWER
PEI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (ΜΙΑΝΣ)
LATE: 22 JULY 1948
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
BUKJECT: MIRR, AKA CUBAN FOWER...
FBI FILE NOI (1A) 97-4474 (MAH.D.C.)
DATE: 27 JUNE 1968
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA
FBI FILE NO: 105-2856 (MIAMI)
DATE: 20 JUNE 1968
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: MIRR, AKA CUBAN POWER...
FBI FILE NO: 105-2855 (MIAMI)
DATE: 20 JUNE 1968
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: MIRR, AKA CUBAN POWER...
FBI FILE NO: 105-2855 (MIAMI)

14-00000
L
Chief of Stettos, COURBA
- 2011018
Aristea
LINKAGO Report (8101) pasta benking of..
place toan Launce to Am.
The following paragrapta sore.totrested from a detailed
120001110201209 [pen
organisatios, it, and resident in the 1.0.1
Da June 10, 1966, BOSCH claims to
۱۰ صد دهد asen, Rabee Leeds, who is chocking
bition flights and by Cubes ansted Ratione persoanel
trowling from or Park City to Ms.KET】 expressed
the belief that tata prveedure to a prettathary survey
to anse fors of action, prouibly the bombing of a plane
personnel about.
:
On June 17, 1988, 189-3 reported thes BORCE had declared
trading with Calma me 19, 1948, BOSCH disclosed
that he istende to continue bomber ships of countries
to
that he was can in Bow Park City, Trapa and
:
Metri
Orig
201-299293
100-1
BUSTED BLIF
1-0-681
DC/TE/COC
A
201-299292
#133/1349
1961 sunday

14-00000
FRI LOCUMENTS
DATE: 14 JULY 1967
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
SUBJECT: ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA
FBI FILE NO: 105-2856 (MIAMI)
DATE: 3 JULY 1967 (CROSS REFERENCE SEELT.
CLASS: NOT KNOWN
SUBJECT: MIRR
DOCUMENT AVAILABLE IN ITEM 68
MIRR)
FBI FILE NO: NOT KNOWN

14-00000
L
FBY DOCUMENTS
DATE: 8 APRIL 1968
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
BURJECT ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA
FBI FILE NO: 105-2856 (ΜΙΑΜΙ)
DATE: 26 JULY 1967
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: FRANK ANGEIO FIORINI;
....
DR. ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA;
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (WASH., D.C.)
DATE: 12 OCTOBER 1967
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: MOVIEMENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE
F
RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)
FBI FILE NO: 105-2855 (MIAMI)

14-00000
:
6. WILLIAMS: JAP
VH/COG/CICS/OS
9044
28 APRIL 67
CABLE SECRET-
SECRET
153
:
201-2992921
1) --201-7266087
0
RID COPY
SECRET
PRIORITY JHAAVE
SENSITIZEN
TYPIC
:
21 20 14 2
AN
OSTRACT
INDEX
-
9704
CITE DIRECTOR
MICROFILMED
JUL 12 1967
1. FOLLOWING PERSONS WILL BE CHARGED WITH VIOLATION DOC. MICRO SER
ARMS CONTROL ACT, CONSPIRACY, NEUTRALITY ACT.U.S.
ATTORNEY MIAMI WILL PROBABLY PRESENT THE CASE TO GRAND
JURY 15 ΜΑΥ 1967.
The
RECORDS OP10828 JULY
(201299292)
g
A. ORLANDO BOSCH Y AVILA (204775rired
1926, SANTA CLARA, CUBA. RESIDING 1849 N. 35TH STREETY
SIAM
B. LOUIS CONCEPTION BERTOT AGE 36, S. CITIZEN,
R.O.
RESIDING 910 N.W. 29TH AVE, ΜΙΑΜΙ.
Note:
C. JOSE ANTONIO MULET Y GONZALES (20)-728604
detien, fite
DPOB 31 DECEMBER 1921, SANTIAGO DE CUBA. RES:fiate
35TH STREET, MIAMI.
D. JOSE DIAZ Y MOREJON DPOB 23 MARCH 1942, CUBA,
RESIDING 72) 8.W. 11TH STREET, MIAMI.
3. MARCOS RODRIGUEZ Y RAMOS DPOB 16 JUNE 1944,
CURA. RESIDING 227 N.W. 17TH AVENUE, ΜΙΑΜΙ.
201-299292
28 april 1967
7. BARBARO DALAN Y GARCIA DPOD 4 DECEMBER 1936;
CUBA, RESIDING 735 8,W, 1ST STREET, MIAMI.
B 201-728607
RELEASING OPFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERE
SECRET
DESER
Encluded trem tutumalis
AUTHENTICATING
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

ماهان
14-00000
BID COPY
PAGE TWO
RIOUS SECRET
-----
CITE DIRECTOR
G. ARTHUR ANDREW GERTEIT RESIDING 890 N., 45
AVENUE, MIAMI, (POSSIBLY WITNESS RATHER THAN DEFENDANT
IN CASE).
2. PLEASE FORWARD PRIOR COB MAY 67 ANY TRACES NOT
ALREADY AVAILABLE HOS ON SUBJECTS PARA 1.
97049
3. JHWAVE'S COMMENTS ARE REQUESTED ON POSSIBLE EFFECT
THIS TRIAL ON STATION'S OPERATIONS AND SECURITY IN SAME
CONTEXT AS MABFERRER CASE, HEADQUARTERS ALSO INTERESTED
KNOWING WHETHER OR NOT ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE OF ANY KIND
EVER EMPLOYED AGAINST THESE INDIVIDUALS (INCLUDING SURREPTI-
TIOUS RECORDING OF SGSVIRL INTERVIEW).
END OF MESSAGE
C/WH/COG/FI
WILLIAM V. BROB
C/WHD
SELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICEE
BECRET
THOMAS J. FLORES
C/WH/COG
AUTHENTICATING
engrading
REPRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE PROHIBITED.
٦

14-00000
hansire to
LWHKG-LAND COPY
CLASS OF HED DESSAGE
SECRET
.
FILE
12073-29-67 FBC
TO SECRETARY OF STATE &
TO DIRECTOR CIA I
TO DIRECTOR DIA I
TO DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY I
TO DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
58.77240
08239
PS
ABSTRACT.
TO WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM, ATT. SECRET SERVICE (PIA)
FRON DIRECTOR FBI
☑ MOVIMIENTO INSURDECCIONAL DE
INTERNAL SECURITY -CUBA
RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)
MICROFILMED
APK A4 1967
NEUTRALITY MATTER -CUBA
DOC. MICRO. SER.
(SECRET)
of
2957032580
L
BIRR IS AN ANTI-CASTRO ORGANIZATION HEADED BY DR. ORLANDO 201-299292
BOSCH AVILA AND HAS CONDUCTED RAIDS AGAINST CUBA IN THE PAST.
-
ANOTHER GOVERNMENT AGENCY WHICH CONDUCTS INTELLIGENCE
ADVISED THAT AN
INVESTIGATIONS ON MARCH TWENTYTHREE, SIXTYSEVEN,
ANONYMOUS TELEPHONE CALL HAD BEEN RECEIVED ON MARCH FIFTEEN
SIXTYSEVEN, STATINGAAN AMERICAN PILOT INTENDED TO RENT AN AIRPLANE IN
APEL SIXTYSEVEN, AND DROP SEVERAL ONE HUNDRED POUND BOME'S OVER..
SUBA FOR ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA
D-19-300-20
CS COPY
SECRET
201-299292
t

14-00000
L
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
N 3STEPAGE 2
The ALGALADUS FEASON Of Maha Tutalitve, slattseven, a6410
CALLED AND CLAIMED THAT Thel TaibeT WOULD BE PUSTO ALLEKO, CUDA.
FOUR TO SIX BONES VOULD BE USED. THE RAID VOULD BE WITHIN TWO
LLES. A TUIS ENGINE AIRPLANE VOULD BE USED. THE FLIGHT WOULD
BE OUT OF OPA-LOCKA, FLA, AND THE PILOT WOULD RECLIVE DETVELS.
• FIFTEEN HUNDRED AND TWO THOUSAND DOLLARS.
A SECOND SOURCE, WHO HAS BEEN ASSOCIATED WITH BOSCH IN THE
FMST. AND WITH HON INSUFFICIENT CONTACT HAS BEEN HAD TO
DETLANINE HIS RELIABILITY, ON MARCH TWENTYNINE, SIXTYSEVEN,
FURNISHED THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION.
ON FEBRUARY TWENTYTWO, SIXTYSEVEN AND MARCH TWELVE, BIXTY-
SEVEN, BOSCH MET WITH AN AMERICAN PILOT CONCERNING A BOMBING NISSION
OVER CUBA. BOSCH SAID THAT BETWEEN THIRTYFIVE HUNDRED AND FOUR
THOUSAND DOLLARS WOULD BE USED TO FINANCE THE RAID, A RENTED
AIRPLANE WOULD BE ACQUIRED FROM OUTSIDE FLORIDA, A PILOT AND TWO
OTHERS WOULD CARRY OUT THE MISSION, AND THAT BETWEEN FOUR AND
SIX ONE HUNDRED POUND BOMBS WOULD BE USED. THE TARGET WOULD BE
A SUGAR MILL ON THE NORTH COAST OF CUBA.
THIS SOURCE REPORTED THAT BOSCH IS VERY SECURITY CONSCIOUS,
WOULD NOT IDENTIFY THE CREW OF THE AIRPLANE, THE SOURCE OF THE

14-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
3
DOES, DE FROM dit is the united states i FLARE BEARS TAKE
.
BOSCH SAID ME VOULD CONTACT THE PILOT OF APRIL ONE, TVO GR
THREE, SIXTYSEVER, BRIEF HIN ON THE MISSION, FISALIZE ALL
ARRANGEMENTS, AND THE PILOT VOULD BE READY TO LEAVE AFTER THE BRIEF
186. BOSCH INDICATED THE PILOT AND CREW WOULD NOT KNOW EACH OTHER'S
IDENTITIES OR THE DESCRIPTION OF THE AIRCRAFT UNTIL THE TIME OF THE
MISSION.
U.S. CUSTONS IN NIANI, FLORIDA, ADVISED THAT IT IS CONDUCTING
INVESTIGATION IN THIS MATTER.
BEING UNDERTAKEN BY FBI.
SP-1
END
ACCORDINGLY NO INVESTIGATION IS

14-00000
L
SECRET
COCREST TRANSFER AND CARESS REFERENCE
BUSCH AVILA, ORLANDO
201-290292
036-009-000
CITI
200
DUS P
MA٥٠-٧٤130
MAR 6 -
UPG-0003
P2
HE FORMATION OF CUBAN-HAITIAN EMIGRE VALLIANCE
WITH GOAL OF INVADING HALTIO
ΗΤΡΗΗΗΗVCHGGHNAHRS-
PILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
BECRET
R6704130682.
FILE IN 201-299292
(۲۰۰۰)

14-00000
L
DISPATCH
--
Faint of Stelios Alt
TYPIC/ANT/ امصنعين
-3/CIA Campo Latin Pally held is how fort on 10 Ferry 196
Action Requireds bone, rrt
1. Attached herewith is AMOT Report Number Di-2010,
dated 10 February 16, Subjects kally Hald in New York on
10 February 1907 Under the Sponsorenip of the Cuban
nationaltat Association (ANC) and the nirr-Comandos L
Alliance,
8. As noted in the report, Felipe RIVERO Dias, ANC
leader, and Orlando seu Avila, HIPR leader, violently
attached the United States and CIA during the rally.
Attachment - herewith
ANOT Report
Distribution
-WH/COG
Philip G. ELMARD
68 LOPY FILED IN 19-300-20
Excludat-trun an
asing Ba
daciaallization
GROSS REFERENCE TO
201-291688
201-299292
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
Dile in
201-2929
DATE TYPED
24 Feb 67
DATE CISPATCHAD
MAR-1 1967
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFGA-27081
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
19-5-3/4

14-00000
PRE DOCUMENT
DATE: 24 FEBRUARY 1967
CLASSIFICATION: NONE ΟΣΥΚΗ
SUBJECT: MIRR
FBI FILE NO: 105-2855 (MLANI)

14-00000
L
PRIORITY DIRECT OR
Chief of Stettos, COURBA
- 2011018
Chief of Station, JEY COBRA
L
Arietten-442134
secret
WAVE 4132
