104-10130-10343 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
БЕЛЬЕТ 
X TDY 
PCS
INVITATIONAL
10484877
EOD 
OFFICE TRAVEL ORDER NO.
TRAVEL ORDER
NAME
Boris D. Tarasoff (FDD)
UFTICIAL STATION
Washington, D.C.
OFFICE PHONE
1887
SERVICE TRAVEL ORDER NO.
GRADE
G6-11
YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR NECESSARY EXPENSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS. THIS TRAVEL OR
CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION, IF SO DESIGNATED, IS MADE FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE.
ITINERARY, MODE OF TRAVEL AND PURPOSE
Washington, D.C. to Mexico City and return.
MODE: Air
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
PURPOSE: TOY Replacement for Station Employee while on home leave. Do Not Reproduce
Area Classified Category A.

BEGIN TRAVEL DURATION
15 Aug.'60
END
PER DIEM ALLOWANCE
DOMESTIC
FOREIGN
$ MAXIMUM
OTHER (See below)
AUTOMOBILE ALLOWANCE
CENTS PER MI.
NOT TO EXCEED
COST-BY COM-
MON CARRIER
CENTS PER MI,
AS MORE
ADVANTAGEOUS
TO GOV'T.
ALLOWANCES AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS WITH REASONS
90 days TDY
११
Light State Cover
PROCESSING BRANCH
58 PM '60

DEPENDENT TRAVEL AUTHORIZED
NAME
DATE OF BIRTH RELATIONSHIP
PROCURE TRANSPORTATION BY
TRANSPORTATION REQUEST
CASH OR OTHER
DISPOSITION OF EFFECTS
ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL
$1400.00 (02)
AUTHORIZATION
SHIPMENT TEMPORARY STORAGE
SHIPMENT POA AUTHORIZED
I CERTIFY FUNDS ARE AVAILABLE
OBLIGATION REFERENCE NO.
EXCESS BAGGAGE AUTHORIZED
ACCOMPANIED
UNACCOMPANIED
LBS AND MODE 
LBS AND MODE
CHARGE COST CENTER NO.
40 Air
1135-5700-3000

ACCOMPANY TRAVELER
FOLLOW WITHIN 6 MONTHS
ADVANCE RETURN
ADVANCE OF FUNDS REQUESTED
DATE
SIGNATURE OF B & F OFFICER
YES
ACCOUNTING DUE DATE
NO

COORDINATION
SIGNATURE
TITLE & COMPONENT
DATE
TYPED NAME AND TITLE
Charles A. Moore
COMPONENT
Heller J
CCD
7/16

SIGNATURE J. C. King
DATEhief, WD
TYPED NAME AND TITLE
EXAMINING PROCESSING BUTHORIZING OFFICIAL
5 July 1960
COMPONENT
SIGNATURE LICHAOL BEENS
DATEhief, Ops.
FORM
3-59
MFG 5-59
VPV
540 OBSOLETE
PREVIOUS
EDITIONS.
5 July 1960
(28-48)
SECRE
