104-10179-10113 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

DISPATCH Chile

Chief of Systems, YROSE/AUDESK
ACTION REQUIRED: None; FYI

1. Subject was removed from CAC on 3 taken to a safe site where he was debriefed for of the debriefing was to Cuba and determining if he had any relationship any other Security organization.
2. During the of the to be willing to cooperate and there were t attempt of deception. However, it is a sharp operator, an opportunist and in individuals with. He is very verbose, loud and attempts to

3. CEELLANA claims that he had no relationship to the Cuban C-2, that he knew Ramiro VALOI , Deputy Chief of the C-2, but that he any business with the sight but never knew their names. He members of the C-2 are communists and caliber.
4. Subject was granted asylum in the April 1962, which was obtained through RODRIGUES, Leader of the Creafteurs Union, Uruguayan Ambassador. According to subject in the Uruguayan Embassy because up by the Cuban Security Services. from Habana to the "Segundo frente " Gutterez, Captain of Captain
SALAS,
PARALELA According to individual was arrested in March 1962 and during the

Attachments: Herewith
History
Distribution:
3 - C/TE w/att

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

Security Service, Subject.

A admitted that in Los Angeles, California where but that he did have free
arms is
the Subject also engaged in other criminal he did This
provides the attached Personal his travel and the short term jobs to

also admitted that in April 1961 by the because of his According to Subject was engaged in the
endeavored to take out of the country. Vicente Benito METEL Hernandez
Diz informed the Subject the whereabouts of Ramos.
and after being held for four days in out
who were released a few days before Subject.

7. Subject denies any the 
c-2 or any other Security Communism and is willing to do anything
interest and was returned to does not contemplate any future

8. JMGAVE traces reflect the of the individuals mentioned

Fley Gutierrez
Subject of 201-283349;
September
b. Aurelio Silva,

Domingo

d. General Genoveva Chavez
