14-00000
104-10216-10234
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET
AMLASH-1

1 July 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Test of Open Sight Hood for 7.62um Belgium (FAL) Rifle
REFERENCE: A) Meno for Red. dated 25 May 1964, Subject: FAL-
Silencers/8ights, from C/WH/SA/MOB/PN
B) Meno for Rcd. dated 10 June 1964, Subject: Tests
of Modified Bights for 7.62 Belgium (FAL) Rifle

1. On 15 and 16 June 1984, the undersigned and Mr. Bob
Ricker, TSD/SDB went to Isolation to test an open sight hood for
the 7.62mm Belgium (FAL) Rifle developed in answer to Ref. A.
The Modified Williams peep sight developed previously in answer
to Ref. A and reported on in Ref. B. proved unsatisfactory to the
requester. The snap-on sight hood was then developed on a quick
reaction basis to be simpler to install and easier to use than
the Williams sight. In addition some improved underloaded 7.62mm
NATO rounds having soft. annealed cases and cream of wheat filler
vere tested for performance. These were developed in hopes of
correcting the erratio azmunition performance, noted a B

2. The open sight hood snaps over the existing rear sight
of the FAL rifle, and in theory makes shooting in poor light or
at night easier. It can be used with either standard factory
loads or the underloaded ammunition in conjunction with the muzzle
attachment silencer. The notch on the rear sight hood is "U" shaped
and raised to compensate for the more curving trajectory of the low
velocity ammunition. The hood is easily detached making the con-
ventional peep sight available any time it is desired.

3. The attached data sheet summarizes the test results. It
was found that some familiarization vas necessary to get used to
the open sight. Under ideal conditions the sight was as easy to
use as the peep sight although it was more difficult to maintain
uniform vertical grouping. The relationship between the eye and
rear sight was found to be very critical. As the tests proceeded
a change was noted in the point of impact vs. point of aim which was
thought to be due to a change in sight picture on the part of the
undersigned.

4. The improved ansunition was found to be quite consistant
in performance. The use of crean of wheat filler to tamp the powder
charge against the primer vas an attempt to get more even ignition
with correspondingly improved accuracy. The expended cartridge
cases vere checked periodically and no evidence vas found of the
soft annealed cases not expanding properly. During the tests the
rifle and ammunition combination instilled a degree of confidence
in the undersigned not present in the previous teste.
SECRET
:
な
صححفرة

14-00000

i
5. Tests were conducted in the evening to determine the degree
of usefulness of the sight in poor light. In this respect a 22
Caliber Hi-Standard pistol with folding shoulder stock and Bushnell
1.3X Phantom scope was tested in comparison. The scope was
equipped with yellow filters to brighten the sight picture for
low light level use. It was the opinion of both test personnel
that the scope vas superior to either the peep sight or open sight
for as long as their was some illumination on the silhouette
targets. Once the light failed the scope was completely useless
although the undersigned could still discern targets with the naked
eye out to 50 yds. All actual shooting was done with the open
sight and some difficulty was experienced in hitting the targets
at ranges of 100 yds, or more even at dusk. The closer targets
could be easily hit up until it became too dark to see them at all.
A large rain cloud moving from behind the firing position gradually
obscured all available light. For the final shooting at 25 yds.
occasional lightning flashes gave only a vague awareness of the
target location. At no time during the night trials was there any
muzzle flash visible from the under loaded azmunition and muzzle
silencer combination. The gas port which was in the off position
during the daylight trials was turned on at night but no flash was
visible at the breech. A fine white cloud of cream of wheat
powder was visible in front of the muzzle at almost full darkness
but could not be seen more than 30 feet avay.

6. Listener trials were conducted the following day to deter-
mine how far away an alert listener could discern the mechanical
noise of the mechanism and that of the round being fired. Mr. Ricker
walked away downwind at an angle of 90 degrees to the line of fire
and stopped to listen every 25 paces. The undersigned fired
single rounds, (hand actuating the pechanism) each time Nr. Ricker
stopped. At 335 paces, or roughly 275 yds., Er. Ricker reported.
he could still hear the mechanisa being actuated, the round being
fired, and the bullet striking a concrete pillar 200 yds. down-
range. However, he stared that he might not have noticed the sound
at that range had he not been listening for it specifically.

7. One of the major causes for concern at the start of the
tests was that the cream of wheat filler might clog the silencer
and render it ineffective. A total of 200 rounds were fired with
the silencer in place and the noise level did seem to be higher at
the finish of the second day. (Round numbers 180 to 200 were the
ones expended during the previously mentioned listener trials).
Inspection of the silencer at a later date revealed considerable
crean of wheat residue in the screening. Sound level measurements
made in the AMF sound lab showed that while the total noise level
vas no higher, the duration was relatively longer. This would
make the silencer seen louder to near by observers but not increase
the range at which it could be heard. However, from a stand-
point of the ability for a listener to discriminate a silencer
being fired from random noise, the longer duration gives him a
better chance to recognize what he hears.
SECRET

14-00000

Thi
8. On 19 June 1964, the undersigned went to the warehouse
at Franconia to try to fit the sight hood to other 7.65mm FAL
rifles. It was suspected that the fit might be a problem when it
would not fit over the rear sights of three FAL rifles at Isolation.
Although it was later determined that the three rifles. vore of a
different lot and may therefore have different tolerances on the
rear sight casting, it was felt that further checking was necessary.
Nine FAL rifles from the same lot as those obtained by WH/SA/MOB/PM
were unpackaged and the sight hood tried on the rear sight. Of
the nine, two were perfect fits and the other seven too thick
for the hood to fit. This created a problem in that the sight
hoods had to fit rifles which for operational reasons could not be
measured before hand to determine the thickness of the rear sight
blade. Providing adjustment in the slot of the sight hood would
have complicated the fixture to the point where it could become
operationally unsuitable. Therefore it was determined that the
best solution was to provide several small files with the hoods.
The peep sight on the rifles, a soft casting, was found to be
quite easy to file. In most cases it would be necessary only to
file several thousandths to obtain a proper fit. This procedure
was explained to C/WH/SA/MOB/FM and he stated that it would be
acceptable.

9. On 24 June 1964, three open sight hoods with accessories
consisting of two files and a small screwdriver were turned over
to C/WH/SA/MOB/PM. In addition, 400 rounds of improved under-
loaded ammunition with cream of wheat filler were provided as a
bf replacement for the original 400 underloaded rounds.

10. On 29 June 1964, it was discovered that a scope was availabl
451 for the 7.62mm Belgium (FAL) Rifle (Sniper Version) and in the Agency
supply system. Steps are being taken to obtain a scope for
evaluation. The results will be forwarded to C/CH/SA/MOB.

DDP/TSD/EB/DJH/EC

cc: C/TSD
C/TH/SA/MOB/PH
DANIEL J. BOGAN
TSD/EB
SECRET

14-00000
RANGE
RAMP SETTING
SIGHT TYPE
STANDARD VELOCITY AMMUNITION, DAYLIGHT:
POINT OF IMPACT
(RELATIVE TO POINT OF AIM)
100 yds.
No. 2
Peep
On
100 yds.
No. 3
Peap
On
100 yds.
No. 2
Open Hood
24" high
100 yds.
No. 8
Open Hood
26" high
EXTREME SPREAD
NO. OF ROUNDS
6844
5
5
க
【
ERLOADED AMMUNITION, OPEN SIGHT HOOD, DAYLIGHT:
POINT OF IMPACT
EXTREME
RANGE
RAMP SETTING
(RELATING TO POINT OF AIM) SPREAD
HORIZONTAL
SPREAD
VERTICAL
SPREAD
NO. OF ROUNDS
41
25 yds. No. 2
3" high
25 yds. No. 6
3" low
1 3/4"
3/4"
--
5
--
50 yds. No. 6
5"
8
:
75 yds.
No. 6
4" loft 4" low
3"
5
100 yds.
Full Elevation
6" loft, 8" low
9"
--
10
:
100 yds.
Full Elevation
On (Diff. Shooter)
5"
13"
5
100 yds.
125 yds.
Full Elevation
No 2
8" left, 8" low
--
--
6"
9"
10
8" loft, 18" low
--
31
125 yds.
Full Elevation
On (Changed sight. Picture)
--
6
20"
8 (2 missed
target)
150 yds.
Jull Elevation
On (Changed Sight Picture)
--
6"
18"
8 (2 missed
target)
Jyds. Pull Elevation
6" low (Changed Sight Pic-
ture)
--
8"
26"
10

14-00000
UNDERIOADED AMMUNITION, OPEN SIGHT HOOD, DUSH:
RANGE
NO. OF ROUNDS NO. OF HITS
300 усв.
10
yds.
10
HORIZONTAL SPREAD VERTICAL SPREAD
REMARKS
15"
85
6
Could ocs target more
clearly through Peep
sight at no rounde
woro fired.
Could soo target very
clearly with 1.3X
scope.
UNDER'OADED AMMUNITION, ALMOST FULL DARK, OPEN SIGHT HOOD:
NO. OF ROUNDIS NO. OF HITS BORIZONTAL SPREAD VERTICAL SPREAD
RANGE
75 yds.
10
25 yds.
10
10
9"
14
"
85"
REMARKS
Poop sight useless
Could see targets out to
200 yds, with filtered
scope at start of
firing, could not se
at; all w/scope at
finishi
τα
POERIOADED AMMUNITION, OPEN BIGHT HOOD, PULLE DARK:
RANGE
35 yds.
NO. OF ROUNDIS
10
NO. OF HITS
REMARKS
5 (scattered) Target in total darkness, rain cloud overhead, inter-
mittant lightning flashes gave a vague awareness of
target location.
