TO DIRECTOR

FROM:
UMWAVE

43 SECRET

ACTION: 5438

INFO:
DOP, OOP, SOD 6, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS,
FI, FI/D, FI/INTI, SR 7, WH 7, DD/1,
AD/CI 2, AD/NE, AD/RR 36/NR/

ORET 1200282
TDCS

ROUTING

12 DEC 63 IN 78723
DIP INFO LANT PACY BARR CITE WAVE 8923
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

INTEL TYPIC

66
SUPDATA: AMLISP-1 IN SW MSG 317 DTD 10 NOV RECD FROM TRANSLATION

30 NOV 63. INFORMANTS ARE AUDIL 10 CHERRERA) SURGIDERO DE BATABANO
RESIDENT AND FORMER WHOLESALE FRUIT VENDOR, AND EDILIO (GOMEZ)
RESIDENT OF FINCA ALGOBIN, BATABANO. BOTH WERE RECRUITED BY (FNU)
DE LA TORRE FULL IDEN NOT ESTABLISHED. FIELD COMMENTS ARE FROM
AMSUM-4 MONITORING OF CLT RID NO INDEX, FILED 12/282

PEPORT CLASS SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY CUBA
SUBJ
TRAVEL OF SOVIETS FROM BATABANO TO ISLA DE PINOS
CARGO TRAFFIC BETWEEN ISLA DE PINOS AND BATABANAO

COMMENT
BO DIESEMINATION OF THE ATTACHE
ED PORTION OF THIS CABLE HAS SPEN
MADE OUTSIDE THE AGENCY GIDIONG
BELZAGE OF THE ACTION UNIT.

RELEASING
DATE DISTRIBU
BASED ONE
TOCS
PRECEDENCE
ROUTINE
PRIORIT
LIAISON
UTOMATIC

14-00000
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains Information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs.
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

COUNTRY
JUBJECT
SECRET
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
REPORT NO. TDCS

DATE DISTR
PRECEDENCE

REFERENCES
DATE OF
INFO.
LACE&
JATE ACO.
APPRAISAL
SOURCE
FIELD REPORT NO.
IN 78723

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
ON 6 NOVEMBER 1963, AT ABOUT 6:00P.M., TWO TRUCKS, NOT OF
U.S. MANUFACTURE, TRANSPORTING A TOTAL OF 24 MEN, WHO APPEARED TO
BE SOVIETS, ARRIVED IN BATABANO, HABANA PROVINCE. THE MEN WERE
WELL-GROOMED, WORE CLEAN CLOTHES AND WERE CARRYING SUITCASES AND
BUNDLES, AT MIDNIGHT THESE INDIVIDUALS BOARDED THE FERRY SAILING
FOR ISLA DE PINOS, (FIELD COMMENT: A USALLY RELIABLE SOURCE
REPORTED THAT THE ISLA DE TESORO, THE REGULAR FERRY TO ISLA DE
PINOS, DEPARTED FROM BATABANO FOR GERONA, ISLA DE PINOS, ON THE
NIGHT OF 6 NOVEMBER.)
2. ON 31 OCTOBER AT ABOUT 10:Ø P.M., TWO OLIVE GREEN TRAILER
SECRET
LASSIFICATIO DISSEMINATION CONTROL

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

14-00000

78723
SECRET
HON LA DISSEMINATION CONTROL
TDCS
TRUCKS HAUL ING BOXES ARRIVED AT THE PORT OF BATABANO PROM
ISLA DE PINOS.
3. ON 28 OCTOBER AT ABOUT 3: P.M., TWO OLIVE GREEN TEN-
WHEELED TRUCKS DRIVEN BY MILITIAMEN ARRIVED IN BATABANO AND WERE
SHIPPED ABOARD THE ISLA DE PINOS FERRY WHICH LEFT THE SLIP AT 4:ØØ
P.M. THE TRUCKS HAD AN ENCLOSED METAL BODY WITH SMALL SIDE
WINDOWS AND EACH TRUCK PULLED A FOUR-WHEELED TRAILER (FIELD
COMMENT A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE REPORTED THAT ON 28 OCTOBER
ZIL TRUCKS WERE ON BOARD THE ISLA DE TESORO FERRY WHICH SAILED
FOR GERONA.)
4. FIELD DISSEM: CINCSO, CINCLANT, COMNAVKEYWEST.
END OF MESSAGE
SECRET
PLAS SCADON - KATOR CONTROLS
