2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED INTERNAL USE ONLY CON JENTIAL SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SLIBJECT: (Optional):
Alpha 66 Doings in Los Angeles as of September 1970

FROM
Chief, Los Angeles Office

(AMatson/bas)
TO: Officer designation, room number, and
DCS Message Center

1. International Div.

2. K. Hufle

3. 
4. OSS

5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
FORM 610 LISE PREVIOUS EDITIONS SECRET

EXTENSION NO DATE
29 September 1970
DATE OFFICER S INITIALS
RECEIVED FORWARDED
But oct In
oct in
70 7177
CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED
COMMENTS (Number sach comment to show from whom
to whom, Draw a line, focross column after each comment.)
Attached obtained from Johnny
O'Donnelly free-lance reporter/
writer, who has gained confidence
of Alpha 66 members in
Los Angeles. Is there any
interest in this type of
information, as noted in
enclosures?
Encls: Alpha 66 Notices of
Meetings and Propaganda
History of Alpha 66
Picture of Vicente Mendez
Tape of Meeting/Interview
with Los Angeles Leader
Miguel Talleda/Press
Interview with Andreas
Nazario Sargent, Alpha
66 Secretary General in
US.
For retention.
File: O'Donnell, Johnny

ATTN:
cout
SPEED LETTER
SECRET
(Then Filled la)
REPLY REQUESTED
FROM:
VES NO DATE
LETNO.
Fecerewe: اشاعت are heword het, wasta, dated 29
Intersti teh you cay be able
attacha
25 interested in any a centre orga
31
make re
ts jart.cularzy Alpha. Your comment pote
colicction ce alta to
dols to happy to
n
FOL F-01477
SIGNATURE
DATE
REPLY
ORIGINATOR'S SUSPENSE
SECRET

UNCLASSIFIED INTERNAL SE ONLY CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
Alpha 66 Doings in Los Angeles as of September 1970

FROM: DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE
Operational Support Statt. 900 Key
George S. Kusulin Ext. 2268 m
TO: (Officer designation, room number, and
building)
DATE RECEIVED FORWARDED
EXTENSION NO OFFICER'S INITIALS
DCS HH-21477
CATE
2 October 1970
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whore
to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

1. THRU: DO/DCSL

2. WH/C/OP
3 D 30, Hqs.

3. RR

4. 
5. SR I plan to tase those portions of this in which I
an interested - in any offictiong
6. DE/DCSL

7. DES-900 Ru
8. 

3. Attached obtain from Johnny
O'Donnell, free-lance reporter/
writer, who has gained confidence
of Alpha 66 members in Los
Angeles. Is there any interest
in this type of information, as
noted in enclosures?
Enclosures:
des Alpha 66 Notices of Meetings and Propaganda
History of Alpha 66-fieds my
Picture of Vicente Mendez
Tape of Meeting/Interview
with Los Angeles Leader hed
Miguel Talleda/Press
Interview with Andreas
Nazario Sargent, Alpha 66
Secretary General in US.
Please advise.
thies use
Heng 10/19/2014 - Arrine of the
FL
Lane retained farany
--
natos
Tiforce, Hamdin, de
Alice hice,

FORM 610 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED

CUBANOS
A LA
GUERRA
EMPLEARE TODAS MIS ENERGIAS A FIN DE DESEMBARCAR
EN TIEMPO PRUDENCIAL EN LA ISLA AMADA"
Capitan Vicente Mendez.-
a Promesa se ha Cumplido!
VICENTE MENDEZ Y SUS HOMBRE
ESTAN PELEANDO EN CUBA
ALPHA 66 Convoca
al Magno acto de INFORMACION DE GUERRA a cargo de
ANDRES NAZARIO SARGEN
Secretario General de ALPHA 66
:
AGOSTO 30.1 1.m
Embassy Auditorium
Rom
GRAND Ave. Y 9th STREET
GIL LOPEZ
PRESIDENT
Interiors
ALFOMBRAS Y CORTINAS
COMPRE DIRECTAMENTE A LA FABRICA Y
PHONE: 748-5306 !!! AHORRE DINERO!!!
1422 W. PICO BLVD..
743-5307 LOS ANGELES, CA. 20015
Almacenes
Alaman
Fabricantes en Joyas Fuias de
Objetos para Regalos Camaras - PrevNteres
Electos Electricos Televisors Ran
Discos Latines.
CREOITO INMEDIATO
USTCO COMPRA EN ALAMAR Y PALA
TELFS.
484-0626
SETUこ、
LCE ANGELES CA 90026
484-0636

ias informaciones quellemn de nuestra Patría aseguran un estado latente
de rebeldía, actividades de sabotages violentos y pasivos, inconformidad en los
lebros de laz er armadas, grandes preocupac os en las esferas del g
bierno y un malestar general en el pueblo cubano.

hay dudas que el Flan do Alpha 66 contribuye en alguna proporción a es
tos fenómenos. Primero anunciamos el desembarco de Vicento Menież antes del 31
de diciembre con otros hambres, apesar de las dificultades conocidas, ce cumplió
en gran medida la prezesa. Murió en el hecho el Capitan Julio Cesar Raziraz.
Sin esperar mucho tiempo, se produjo la gran commoción Mundial ol 17 de Abril
con la presencia y los combatientes del Coronel Vicante Néndez y el myor contin-
Gente que llego a tierras cubanas, deagea de 1961.

En mayo, hombres del Alpha 66 hundieron 2 embarciones cubaras e hicieron 11
prisioneros comunistas, reritiondo otra conmoción Mundial que motivé el escarialo
mayor escenificado por el traidor Fidel Castro y su mayor derreta moral do dos ul-
ticos tiempos. El gran triunfo lo corsigna el pueblo de Cuba en distintos infor
nes que poscemos de muestras células clardestinas.

Otros movimientos positivos de distintas indoles se produjeron, unes con d
to y otros frustados por las autoridades norteamericanas; pero en fin todos destina-
dos a golpear duramente al tirano y alentar y respaldar a los hombres de Lac mon-
tañas y los grupos clandestinos que se juegan todos los dias sus vidas en aras du
la libertad.

Con estos antecedentes de gran valor y valides, azén de mas de 20 acciones co-
mandos y de infiltraciones realizadas por nuestros ma destoendos hombres y por
ura pleyade de patriotas que combatieron y combaten en todos los frentes de accion
cubana, nos sentimos coralmente respaldados para promover un Hamertente en pone-
ral a los cubanos de la Isla a los cubanos del dustierro, a la guerra libertado-
ra. No pretendemos convertirmos en sectaristas, sino que cada cual que capuña el
arma que tenga, la actividad que sea compatible a sus posibilidades, la colabora
ción economica y el apoyo moral, a los que combaten y sobre todo, a los que en la
Isla can la pauta y lleven el mayor peso en la contienda. Sin demora tenemos que
a cometer acciones vitales para que éste gran momento historico ciaje en la libera-
ción definitiva de Cuba.

Ademas de coontirar las cuestiones internes con otros grupos clandestinos,
Alpha 66 esta distrubuyerão cientos de millares de pequeños pantleticos convidan-
do a las milicias, at Ejercito Rebeldo y al pueblo a participar de la contienda en
contra del Castro-Communismo. Todos los cubanos que deseen cooperar a este
ma-
miento pueden pasar por miestras oficiras para entregarles el material que deben
enviar a Cuba. Cada cubano puede servir de puente entre los de dentro y de Suera:

Por último, demandames de todos los cubanos y de las organizaciones que pace
mos de las pal. Cras a los hechos. Que las disputas, las divisionca y las querellas
infecundis se eliminen y se convierta cada uno en un esforzado militante de la
causa cubara. lo requieren los hombres y mujeres quo en las carceles costierea la
gallarta rebeldía racional, los combatientes de todos los frentes y el pueblo en-
clavizado. Iongamos la tragedia de nuestro pueblo por encima de mesquinor intero-
ses y daños cada cubano un impulso y el apoyo moral y muerrero a la epopera ib
tadora. De este modo prezos regresar a nuestra Patria con la frente limpia y el
corazón henchido de orgullo porque supimos conquistar el derecho a cer libres.
EJECUTIVO NACIONAL "ALPH66
SDAVIS

VIGENTE ENDEZ
VIVO
EN CUBA
ALPHA 66 INFORMA:
Reportes que nos llegan desde nuestras células militantes dentro de Cuba, determinan
que las acciones iniciadas por nuestra Organicación, que er ura de sus etapes cumino
con el desembarcs aul Coronel Vicente Méndez el 17 de Abril en Criente, estan tenien-
do repercusión en otras provincias de la isla.

No es sólo en Oriente donde las fuerzas internas han respondido al estímulo exterior
representado por las acciones de Alpha óó; en Camagüey, por ejemplo, se han produci-
do reiterados brotes de rebeldía traduciaos en sabotajes, resistencia y en algunes
casos enfrentamiento directo con el régimen.

La situación en Oriente, desde luego, es la que revela con mayor claridad la decisión
del pueblo cubano de sacudirse el jugo que lo oprime. A tal extremo que los propios
medios de publicidad del Gobiomo comunista de Cuba han tenido que informar sobre
se debe a "rovi-
"grandes concentraciones de las Fuerzas Armadas", en esos sectores
lizaciones para incrementar la producción", cuando lo cierto es que la fracasada za-
fra de los 10 millones, ya practicamente ha terminado.

Las movilizaciones no han tenido otro objeto, según los reportes que hemos recibido,
que frenar le ola de deserciones que se han venido produciendo en las filas de los
Fuerzas Armadas y cubrir territorios en los cue actúan eficazmente los patriotas cu-
banos.

Que el régimen de Castro está consciente de la pravocad del momento lo demuestra en-
tre otras cosas, la intensa purga que se está llevando a cabo en las mas altas este-
ras del Gobierno, y que comezaron con la cesantia fulminante de José Llause, sono
Kinistro de Educación y Francisco ladron, como ministro de la Industria Azucarera.
Los desplazamientos de distintos elementos de les importantes cargos que venien sou-
pando continúan especialmente en los "Estacos Mayores" de ins Fuercas Armadas, & al
extremo, de que se da por segum la destitución del Comandante Guillermo dareit Frias.
Jefe cel Partido Comunistra en la provincia de Oriente, quien ha caldo en "Desgracia"
debido a su importancia para contener a les invasores de Alpha 66 y a los clearates
que en esa provincia se han sumado a las acciones.

Este estado de cosas ha llegado a tal situación explosiva, que se esperan en el sar-
so de lo que resta de éste zes importantes acontecimientos que daran un giro avem-
ble a la rebeldía cubana frente al régimen despotico que ocupa el poder.

Ese es en síntesis, el resumen de los informes que hemos recibido donde giguran dites
aún más concretes que de revelarse pormenorizadamente, pudieran acarrear graves peli-
gros a elementos que actuan activamente en esas dos provincias mencionadas.
:
Fdo. EJECUTIVO NACIONAL "ALPHA 66"

tin Vicente Mendoz
Scandez has publicly comit
hiccelf,and iven his
word that he will to fighting
in Cuba in the next monthe to
come, In a very native letter
audressed to the National Coun-
sil of Athens Iependence Va-
trans (in exile) : Formallv
pledge himself to the nation
הd ניהן penuto in exile by his
nor to face all
pon-
tility of the was in Lahan
wil. : goes on telling thema
in al letter full of courage,
the will face all the cc-
7-tror in the
COLETIN MENSUAL
ORGANO JFICIAL OLL "CIRCOLO COMLAO
DE LOS ANGELES CALIFORNIA, E. U. A.
"A NEW HOPE"
UNA NUEVA
ESPERANZA
Par Esteion Tramite
Curing t
11.
!
::
.........
:
..
In
Vicente Fondaz is only known in his et
Sainst Castro cut he ימונה מתח
rated in seeing bla nove in th
1
or ancuming the leadership of 1200.
e has always chosen to he unkne,
Prina that sa soon be all go back,
is in necessary til der
:
to help for the fres of Go kho
Lis een in, and his surits and
pray for thin fo.
:: Main Vicente ters
the first
Fight craint the yo Gotro.
July 5, 1950 he sees the first store of
Communica in the Sevelution that he tolpad
sazuch.
Men Powrince as taken by Vitale om-
nd his collocars, taking t
Pracht for claven leng months.
i
::
:-
1
::
n 20
1
21477
ti
: la
-"

Latin Arcadian Copept
Mises: 721 National Press liuilding St. N.. Washington D.C. 20004 Phone: 79.3-7507
Editorial: Jol Langford Building, 121 S. Fastest Miami, Fl. 33:31 Pasas: 373-0631.
Editor: Paid D. Rethel
Vol. S.No. 7 - July, 19:
Lattas Want U.S. Holta Casting Castro
At least six Latin countrics soom coger to dump the Red
tyrant, but ero hampered by State's 'non-policy toward Cul
SSAUL BETHEL
On April 17 (the anniversary of the
1961 Bay of Pigs fiasco) the Cuban exile
military organization Alpha-66 landed
13 comimandos on the east coast of Cuba.
They allegedly were captured, but if so
only after Fidel Castro threw an esti-
mated 25.000 troops into the fray. Cas-
tro lost several men as well.
Then on May 6,Alpha-66 "naval units"
sank, in Cuban waters, two of Castro's
high-scas fishing trawlers (used, as well.
for spying and intiitrating guerrillas into
Latin America).

These two actions set off a chain of
events in Washington that would have
done credit to the LBJ and JFK Ad-
ministrations. With Castro massing his
mobs for a circus of protest, the State
Department hit the panic button and on
May 13 called together representatives
of federal law enforcement agencies to
figure out ways to protect Castro front
further forays of this nature.

What really teed-off the State Depart-
ment was a momentary aberration by
Alpha-68 to trade 11 crew members of
the fishing vessels for the freedom of
survivors of the April 17 landing. They
soon thought better of it and sent a tele-
gram to the Red Cross giving the loca
tion of the men and asking that they be
returned to Caba.
'CIA Invasion"
:
Meanwhile, Castro staged a denson-
stration in front of the former U.S. Em-
bassy in Havana, which is now being
used by the Swiss governinent. He
charged the Swiss, who represent U.S.
interests in Cuba, with complicity in
what he called a "CIA invasion" by
mercenaries.
Coast and Exhibits Arms Taken From Alpha-66. Exiles Say They
Were Intercepted in laternctions! Waters.

Two Suiss employes were pre
vented from leaving the embassy for
two days. The strategy was to mount
Swiss pressure en Weslagten to
crack dong da the Crona exiles, It
worked, edessy, and the State
Department agala danced to a Cas-
tro tune.

The demonstration was also used to
"welcome" the returning fishermen,
who were soon to land at the airport in
Havana, dets hermen were late
in arriving.

They were the to da undareseen
need to change soding. When Aloha
6s rescued cows com the sinking
vessels (turned around, Castro would
have had them set as he has ordered
the shooting of and seeking to
leave his island in small boats), they
found them herzly in rags,

Shoes were pushed with palia bark;
shirts and trousers were in titters. So,
before setting rem free. Alpha-es pro
vided the men with shoes and new doth
::
:
ing. When the saen arrived at the airp
in Havana, they were divested of th
new goodies and forced to den old w
clothing. Some, we are told, protes
vehemently.

The bearded dictator took the
casion of the "welcome" extended
fishermen to announce that the 10-r
lion-ton sugar harvest was a failt
Despite closing down factories, sche
and offices and marching the poo
out to the fields, the harvest on wh
Castro had placed "the honor of
Revolution" failed to materialice
1952, 350,000 guajiros cut and grow
7.3 million tons in 100 100 days; Castro
had twice that many working and
dused about 3.5 million tons in
days).

Back in Miami, federal agents acti
on State Department interpretation
antiquated neutrality laws entered Alp
os headquarters. The search warra
alleged that there was evidence th
1) Alpha-66 had launched its attac
from U.S. territory: 2) Cubans we

Back in Miami, federal actir.
on State Department interpretation o
antiquated neutrality laws entered Alpha
65 headquarters. The search warrant
alleged that there was evidence that
1( Al66-בלק had launched its attacks
from U.S. territory: 2) Cubans were
raising funds illegally for bellicos pure
poses; and 3) all of this was teing done
to attack a nation with which the U.S
is "at peace, to wit: Cuba."

Of the 37 items impounded, those of
military significance were "one large
carton filled with military-type web
cquipment...one military-type ficid
pack...and one farge cardboard carton
filled with plastic military-type can-
teens." With such evidence, Army-
Navy surplus stores could be indicted.

Greater attention was given to files
containing the names of contributors.
These held special interest because the
wording in the warrant found "financial
contributions and disbursements to ob-
taia boats and other supplies" possibly
prosecutable.

Can the State Department be
serious? If this section of the law
were applied Impartially, how neay
Jeus nou'd today te under indict-
ment for openly soliciting funds for
the purchase of bellicose materials
for a foreign nation-Israel?

How many senators and congressmen
would today have egg on their faces
For participating in fund-raising func-
ions, publicly organized and propagan-
lized, for that very purpose? That is how
he Cuban community sees the matter.

This author has no particular objce. il
ion to fund-raising by Jewish groups in
he United States. Cuban exiles certainly
lo not. Indeed, Cuban Jews in exile have
ontriuted substantially to Israci's war
hest. They are furious when they, as
Cubaas, try to do the same for the libera-
ion of their country, only to find a double
tandard and against them. Nor are
hey happy to see their contributions go
own the Graia when overzealous federat
Gicials seize equipment belonging to
xile groups.

But what blew it for Miami's 350,-
Cubans was an "edict" read to them
by the hapless State Department repre-
entative in Miami.

The exact word in Ge...
from the date Department rende
would like to make it clear tit if there
is sulocicat cridace of activity boned
in the U.S. for any sich mat try expe
Cition, then the fact that a third coentry
is used as a staging area aging area world not pre
clude the U.S. from proceeding to ca-
force its laws."
to combat Fidel Castro's Communist
regime.

la any event, is most recent
actica by the Departement of State
Cada relations betweca Cuban exiles
Woon at hele lowest cos
since the Eay of 'igs failure nize
years ago. Cronas are non thorough
ly convinced that the State Depart
ment is out to "get" them sad willing
to em loy cay sabteríuge to do so.

One of these subterfuges, say the exiles,
Wien the story of State Deparinient
policy hit the streets, the Cubans ex-
ploded. Cuban students from the Uni
versity of Miami and Dade Junior Col-
leme (Dade's 2000 students comprise
8.000 Cuban studente marched on the
Federal Building: 60 Cuban lawyers
challenged the validity of the State Depsired to purchase armas allegedly stolen
partment position; coctors, dentists,
educators, professional groups-57 of
them-publised a lengthy statement in
the Diario las Antéricas newspaper.
Part of that statement reads:

"Title 10, Section 360 of the U.S.
Code (invoked agains: Alpha-sol pro
hibits certain actions from being taken
against a nation with which the United
State: is at peace-'s frictly nation.
Clearly, Fidel Castro is not at prace
with the United States or nations of the
Western liemi.phere and, Ly breaking
diplomatic relations with Cuba on Jan.
3, 1961, the United State: recognized
that Cuba is hardly a friendly action."

REMINDER: We still have
nearly Too school libraries
to co in filiaz our commit.
ment to them for the fail, if
you have 5st contributed in
1970, please co so row.voch
of you have received, a pre-
pald envelope. Place yout
contribution in it and
today! Time is getting short,

"We conclude," the sigantaries said,
"that this part of the rocky laws
cannot be applied against Cuccas who
are fighting for freetom."

Sen. Strom Thurmond (R.-C.C.)
and Rep. William C. Crammer (2.-F.)
strongly support the Cuban exiles in their
interpretation of the law.
is a recent indictment against Andrés
Nazario Sarpen, head of Alpha-66.
Sargen is charged with havin: "cor-
frora a U.S. arsenal in Connecticut.
His bail was set at $100,000, then in-
explicably reduced to a mere $2,500
and Sargen asked to plead guilty to be
let off on a light sentence.

These shenanigans, say the Cubars,
mean that lacking proof that Alpha-
CS launched its attacks from U.S. soil,
the government will use other means
to intimidate exile action groups. Legal
activa taken against Sargin, they argue,
is imply the caper-beaverism on the
part of what they believe to te pro-Cas-
tro functionaries in the Department of
State,

On the other hand, the Department
of State has its case. Many officials are
oniy slightly less enthusiastic than Cuban
crites to see the end of Castro's Com-
munist regime. Dat they argue that the
haif measures taken by Cuban exile
groups are not effective and merely serve
to-embarrass the United States, Others
claim that the Alpha-66 attacks were
merely ill-timed, providing Castro with
an "excuse" to lay the failure of his
sugar crop at the feet of "CIA opera-
tiyes" based in the United States.

As to this latter claira, those who know
Fidel Castro also know that he needs no
excuse to gather the mobs and denounce
the United States. The history of his
10 years in power bears full witress to
the truth of this view.
Co Viablo Policy
What really conies through in all of
this is that Washington has yet to come
up with a viable policy toward Fidel
Castro to put a stop to his subverting
Latia America and even the United States.
The only absolute factor in the conduct
of foreign affairs is the premium placed
en initiative. We don't have it; Castro
docs.

According to the heads of exile action
coups called to his office, the repre-
entative stressed that "the spirit as
cil as the law" will be upheld. He is
id to have told them that fund-raising
or a bellicose purpose is definitely out-
de the law and warned them not only
ould they be prosecuted should they
unch an attack from the U.S., but
ould also be stopped frora using an
other Latin American country for that u
purpose.
The most recent law outlining U.S.
policy toward Cuba was promulgated
and signed by President Kenney on Cet,
3, 1962. it states that the United States
is "to work with the Organization of
American States and with fresden-
loving Cubans to support the aspirations
of the Cuban people for self-determina-
tion." Furthermore, the United States
is signatory to four inter-American pacis
The State Department cannot merely
"wish" Castro out of power, and its
her Latin American country for that u and treaties which clearly are designed a policy of "economic denial and diplo-

E512
demonstration of finerie
۲۰۰۲۳۰۰۰۱۲۹ arenatinal di
LONGURSSIONAL RECORD-Extens of Remarks
if the valg spretne stt could 14 tar
たたずん:
Forst. A review by the Becretary of
cft disputes to which the is a p
to a certain which ones
me tend themselves 20 art reition of
beation W. this seriewe
peted, we asid sure that the Taited
Post of the city hall in
invans and at a Corte On that
date cubre comuiry.
the practical
May 20, 1970
face between and
on the es
6: 1002 and Salet s with miss
America hut tow anchored in Ca..
Ing of the bottie lap watch made the ris
a part of our
its no ret that our Intellternce
community fears that the Soviet Union
new prepared to estabilch a Carib
et basta Cuba, and wirely this fact
tore Amos kor mat Mat
camry stored on behalf of the
Cuban people at for intelate town realty. I say that
Unfortunatvir,
mave to take the disputes that are detenc
mined to justwable to the laternid
Cost of Justice of other appropriate it
pationst trihitials.
Λετο
eans are not totally aware of the vallant
sht put up by the Cuban proste, alone
and tas sted, for nearly a century.
TC. a 10-year vartan
nd the less to in's against a power Sparsh
Second, the ensplosment ployment of the proton
of Article of of the United Nature Char
Ty opinions of the Witc
Izod Agencies on wanes where ruch, a opinia
would help to clarify the legal aperts n
Thirt, the Instructing of US. nerolates.
to seck melaton of a prorition In st
Ematis an agreements which provides f
the World Court adjudication of di
arsing under thore treaties and
We believe that there wer
retten
they serm, would he favorably remmised by lo
International community and lead to a
enh wiced regard tor the rule of law throng
out the warhi.
As Members of Congress for Prace Throu
Low, we have devoted considerate Lice ift
attention to thats qitelion and have
the anvice of skilled international inves
outside the Coppres.
Wo welenme your commenta and rend-
tions to these suggestions and would the
Meed to discuss them in greater Sets
with you of with inenabers of your Admin
tration,
LIST OF SIGNLRA
Senators Diward W. Brooke, Men C
aton, Cloution b. Gredeil, Philip Ar
Mark O. Harhead, Harald E. Hughes, Gale Vi
Cr : McGovern, Lee Metr
Walter P. Monda'e, Frank H. Mors, catert w
Packward, Corne Sell, card
Tata Harrison A
win Jr. Stephen A. Yong
Queremmen Thomas L. Ashley, Janatha
HBgham, Fiwand P. IMAC, Richar
Bang Joten tradema, Ge
Ir. Daniel E. Maron, Sisto O. Coste, J
yers, Jame. C. Cormat. Jorn
Don Edwards, Jrariot
M.
이
lenback, Tub Ecah, Don
Pall Findley. Don
Peter Fremmen. Corne
wher, Jacob H. Glbert. William J. Gree
Gibert Gude, Star Hay M
Herrington, When, D. Hathawas, Augustus
P. liswatos, hery felstrekt, Robert WK-
teater, Hatta Kettle award 1 Kol
Pay
Armiy. They have cotisistently
fotom trauma and car battle
for huderendence from 1855 to 180sound
the Cautot States Achtung clone of
But we cannot forest that the CLisans
so loved itberry that the number of
casumities in their two wars of indeperade
ence mounted to a quarter of a michea
pople. The total paulation of the stand
at tart time ans les that million.
What this means is that one out of
every four Cubias tacame casualties in
metr quest for therty.
Ishanieful to say that the United
Sistes seems to have turned as back on
Cuba when it is sugerint from the ins
pos.tion of an ather foreten tyranny, m
termational communem headed by the
Soviet Umon. Yet, State impartment
spokesman Robert M.Closky, a holdover
bureauernt, areatens freedom fighters
who wish to retura and help their broth
ers throw of the pool this tyranny.
otictal effort to protect Fidel Castro by
mean foydan fighters are danger-
ous and nonion wal
True, the State Department appre
Leak Cuban exttes on the grounds that
ars from the Child States are in
violation of our neutrality laws. But I
world like to rate an interpretation of
thase neutrality laws as retulered by the
lave Robei: Kennedy when he was Attar
her General of time United States
is ruling was that the neutrality lawy
were, ana i quote:
Among the dost laws in mir statutes
The were not deugned for the kind
1
of actuation watch exist in the world today
The lare Attorney General continued
and I quote from his April 20, 1961
ruline:
Their laws were never designed
to prevent Individual fran leaving the
United Rates to drht for a cause in which
they are laut.: 18 the נית
: laws a promenis refuges from Ch
arom returule to try to excare
the Aght for frostem, nor ta en indus
prohibited for the United States, with
ethers of like beliet, to join athers in
end.country for an expediuen avatusta taited
country.
believe that suing not paly!
My collerene, Senator Som Dest alo was made in the cause of ou
MOND, has already brought this to theat-
tention of the Senate. It is any wish to
brane it to the atteson of any colicarues
in the House of itepresentatives and the
American public.
Tamount of cabotage bent comm
mitted by Cubs Imade Cuba is in line
with the tradition of its people Just a
few days ago, on Mar 15, the Castro re-
dne announced the execution by trin
squad of a campesino wao burned down
Aste warcharest slela de Sarnia.
pattor lived in Cuba and give his
Hicta exchange for the destruction of
20000mar
Frota all over Cuba come siñetal ad-
it, Luchard Mytut the Cusan people are in
mantve reistance to the Communist re
ame of Volled Castro,
א. MeCake Alunet J. Mikva
Mank, Willaan.
Mr. Mr. J
E. Mes, Richara L. Otaper. Cele Pe
we, Jertrain I.. Potell, Thomas Rev. Og
nstal
Benj
....
P. Rya, James Scheuer Wom 1. St.
lau hans Tar, dr.
John V. Tuncer and Mark Edall
CUBAN INDEPENDENCE DAY
HON. WILLIAM C. CRATER
CYFLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OP REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 23, 1970
Mr. CHAMER: Mr. Speaker, May 2015
a very per day for Cubans and Amer
wans. On that date in 1902, the Cuban
fortosay that twing reconce fo
Cetro and canimentsin many tim
Dan the reach
braucht riin t1950 הן שויין Yet. Cana
freedom fighters in exile ar pent
when their only pure is to help ther
follow math reath the wiry for which
250.000 Cabaus fought and were womded
ormave their lives
1 shoul: tt1: 18
It not in our own natonal interest that
Culate fred from comization by a
country sad times more powe
than the Spontards of the century?
Isis not be recenon of a Bret of
own security Unfortunately, it has beer
all but fortwtten by cur State Deport-
nient which entours to harars Char
exter and con mstructs the US Cast
Guard to opprehend freedom enters o
the high sea a torin of ometal pracy, 1
macht add
In concluion, I would like to in
hastre that Cuba is Letle more than a
Soviet base dedicated to the destructic:
of our socuts and that of free art
everywhere, I should ke