14-00000
104-10170-10051
28/15
3/11/98
(29
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date: 02/12/98
Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: CIA
RECORD NUMBER: 104-10170-10051
RECORD SERIES : JFK
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM: CHIEF OF STATION, JMWAVE
TO: CHIEF, TASK FORCE W
TITLE: AMSPELL PROGRESS REPORT FOR SEPTEMBER 1962
DATE: 10/09/62
PAGES : 73
SUBJECTS : AMSPELL
PROGRESS REPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/07/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: JFK64-25:F27 1998.02.07.11:28:56:590031: ATTACHMENTS INCLUDED

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED
14-00000

DISPATCH

S-E-C-R-E-T
TO
Chief, Task Force W
INFO
SUBJECT
Chief of Station, JMWAVE
Operational/GYROSE/KUWOLF
AMSPELL Progress Report for September 1962

ACTION REQUIRED
POSED
ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
fil DRE

PROCESSING
ACCOM
MISHED
X

NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ORLY QUALIFIED
HEADQUARTERS DESK
CAN JUDGE INDELING
ABSTRACT

Action: For your information

Ref : A. UFGA-5728, dated 21 September 1962
B. UFGA-5897, dated 25 September 1962
C. UFGA-6065, dated 8 October 1962
D. CARA-7019, dated 25 September 1962
E. CARA-6994, dated 15 September 1962
F. WAVE-8311, dated 7 September 1962
G. WAVE-8356, dated 8 September 1962

1. The September Progress Report for AMSPELL, including
AMHINT and AMDARB activities, is transmitted herewith:

A. ANSPELL
1) General:

a. On 21 September 1962, AMHINT-53 exfiltrated
PBRUMEN in a refugee vessel and made his preliminary operational
report on release from CAC on 22 September (Reference B). Subject
was accompanied by the National Coordinator for Agricultural Affairs
(actually an organizer for guerrilla warfare and resistance groups
throughout the Island) Jose Angel LOZANO y Lozano. Briefly,
AMHINT (53) and LOZANO rendered an optimistic operational report on

Distribution:
3 - C/TFW, w/att, w/ste. Exhil

Attachments:
Under Separate Cover, im S
CROSS REFERENCE TO

Continued
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
19-124-26/2
DATE TYPED
DATE DISPATCHED
9 October 1962T 15′1962

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
42
ATN
S-E-C-R-E-T
UFGA-6140
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
19-120-19/1
ZIBR
14-00000
FORM
53a
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH.

S-E-C-R-E-T
UFGA-6140

AMSPELL organization in PBRUMEN, including the situation in the
underground, compartmentation, organization, communications con-
trol and intelligence structure. Subjects are undergoing intell-
igence debriefing on a continuing basis.

b. While AMHINT 53 was arranging his exfiltration and
ANSPELL Psywar operations in PBRUMEN and the hemisphere were
continued on their normal course, the AMHINTS were still smarting
from the ODYOKE confiscation of their vessel, the JUANIN I, as a
consequence of the 24 August attack on Havana. AMHINT[2] went to 
Caracas on 7 September for a meeting with President BETANCOURT (or
his official representative) and a press conference where he
released an ANSPELL statement, which in effect, served a notice on
PBRUMEN and the USSR that any Communist shipping encountered in
PBRUMEN territorial waters will be attacked on sight. (Reference
F and G)

c. Behind the scenes, however, AMHINTF2 was report-
edly (Reference D and E) negotiating with Venezuelan Naval Officials
for surfacecraft and possibly a base from which to operate.
success he achieved in this quest, or to what extent President
BETANCOURT is prepared to help AMSPELL, is still an unknown
quantity. Judging from their attempts to raise funds in other
spheres, allegedly for the purchase of a replacement vessel, they
were not very successful in Caracas. (A PU Case Officer handling
the CEDAR team has reported that one of the members complained
of forfeiting a 20-percent "kick-back" in his AMSPELL salary.
(For a breakdown of AMSPELL salary see Attachment B.)

d. AMHINT-2 returned from Caracas and as to be
expected, gave no indication of the "secret negotiations" or their
outcome. On 27 September, along with AMHINT-5, he requested a
meeting with the JMWAVE officer för discussion of the AMBARB
funding disagreement and the general ANSPELL situation (See
Attachment C). Perhaps this session gave JHWAVE a bit more insight
as to AMSPELL plans and intentions, but no real solution for the
AMBARBS resulted. In short, AMSPELL policy is to mold PBPRIME,
public opinion and bring pressure to bear on ODYOKE and GPIDEAL
for action in the PBRUMEN situation within the next four months.

e. To implement such a policy, AMSPELL has exploited
the impact of their 24 August attack on PBPRIME news media, as
well as their Caracas Declaration. Also, they have published a
weekly news letter in English entitled "The Cuban Report" (Refer-
ence C) and about 1,000 copies are mailed out to ODYOKE officials
and congressmen. Initiated in late August, the main theme of this
publication has been the Soviet/Bloc materiel buildup in PBRUMEN.
(See Attachment A)
2) Total AMSPELL Support for September 1962: $50,960.40

a. AMBARB Section: Salaries $12,240.00
Operations 7,700.00
Processing 1,020.40 $20,960.40
b. AMHINT Section: Support $ 5,000,00
c. AMSPELL General: Salaries 9,000.00
USE PREVIOUS EDITION
Overhead 2,100.00
Operations 13,900.00 $25,000.00

CONTINUED
4IBR
14-00000
FORM
-40
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
CYSPATH SYMIN AND NU!
S-E-C-R-E-T
UFGA-6140.

3) Intelligence Production:

UFG-1572 - "Status of Equipment at the Nico Lopez
Refinery & UK, Czech, and Soviet Assitance
in its maintenance; Shipment of Gold Bullion
from the Refinery to the USSR."

UFG-1585 - (As above)
UFG-1607 - (As above)
UFG-1622 - (As above)
UFG-1628 - (As above)

4) Development and Plans:

All planning phases of AMSPELL activities supported by
JMWAVE at the present time are subject to the results of meetings
with AMSPELL concerning increased control, and, the decisions of
JMWAVE to continue a support relationship if an acceptable degree
of KUBARK control can be established.

B. AMHINTS:
1) General:

a. As reported in Reference B, the most important
AMHINT development during September was the exfiltration of
AMHINT 53:01 This was also significant for JMWAVE, since all nego-
tiations with AMSPELL would be transferred from AMHINT 2 to 01
AMHINT-5301 Although AMHINT-53 Will undoubtedly be fully briefed
and re-Indoctrinated by AMHINT leaders concerning AMSPELL present
status and operational relationship with JMWAVE, AMHINT-53 is a
mature and astute leader and can be expected to appreciate the
broad scope of JMWAVE-AMSPELL operations.

b. In the Psywar field, the AMHINTS in PBRUMEN
continue to produce. "Trinchera" on a hand-operated mimeograph
machine in Havana and distribute about 10,000 copies monthly.
They are also committed to the collection and transmission of
reports and photographs on the Soviet buildup, at least until
the DAMSON intelligence operations are begun. This activity
is in direct support of the AMSPELL policy cited in Paragraph A.1)e
above. The AMSPELL propaganda section is divided into four
departments to carry out this program: PBRUNEN, Latin American,
PBRUMEN Exile Community and PBPRIME.
24

c. Diplomatic pouches intercepted for JMWAVE by
AMBLEAK-1 have revealed much of AMSPELL operational planning not
heretofore reported. In a series of letters written by the AMSPELL
national coordinators in exile to their opposite numbers in
PBRUMEN on 20 September, it was indicated that:

:

i. Negotiations by AMHINT 2 in Caracas, Costa Rica
and Panama are practically completed for an
AMSPELL operations base. (Letter from Bernabe
PENE to AMHINT-40)

ii. AMSPELL has levied intelligence requirements on
AMHINTS in PBRUMEN for sending out information
on PBRUMEN ports that can be attacked from the
sea. (Intelligence Plans Numbers 5, 6 and 7, in
a letter from AMHINT-39 to "Jesus", National
Coordinator for Intelligence.)

iii. In the interim, reports on Mariel, Cabanas, Bahia
Honda, La Habana, Matanzas and Cardenas are re-
quested on a continuing basis.
CLASSIFICATION
53a
USE PREVIOUS EDITION
S-E-C-R-E-T
PAGE NO
X
CONTINUED
3
JIBR
14-00000
FORM
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
S-E-C-R-E-T
24
SWATCH SYMORE AVEN
UFGA-61-10

d. Subsequently, in an incoming pouch and probably
crossing with the foregoing communications, a series of letters
from the National Coordinators in PBRUNEN reported a severe blow
to AMSPELL clandestine organization. Jore MEDINA Bringier
("Mongo"), National Coordinator for Military Reception and Supply,
reported that AMHINT 100 (PBRUMEN National Coordinator) had been
missing. (Later reported as arrested and being held at G-2
Headquarters on Ave 5 in Miramar.) Also, "Juan" and "Miguel"
were arrested in Havana. Several others were missing. MEDINA
went on to describe security measures implemented and report on
a re-organization of the National Coordinator Committee. He
closed with a plea for a small shipment of small arms for defensive
use, clothing and medicine, and a full-scale propaganda effort if
AMHINT-40 should be sentenced to summary execution.

e. In this same pouch, the National Coordinator for
Propaganda, Nicolas PEREZ Diez-Arguelles ("Jose Alfredo") rendered
a detailed report on Agit/Prop assets in PBRUMEN. The printing and
distribution of "Trinchera" has been moved up to every fortnight,
and efforts to get It printed on a commercial printing press in
Havana appear to be successful. Regular couriers are being trained
for delivery of the newspaper to the provinces. PEREZ alão
reported their progress in mounting two clandestine radio trans-
mitters for Agit/Prop purposes, one in Las Villas and one in
Havana. These are powered by 110 volt generators usually found
on a small farm. It is projected to transmit a regular propram,
probably entitled "Tele-periodico Trinchera". The report does
not explain what counter measures will be taken to prevent GOC
detection. Finally, PEREZ describes an Agit/Prop program already
in progress: Firss a plan for printing and marking walls with
their organization abbreviation, carried out in one operation,
synchronizing municipal and borough teams for the job. As a
follow-up phase, large cloth banners bearing the same letters will
be raised or tended in congested areas and photographs taken for
publication in "Trinchera". Also, with the aid of their Intelli-
gence Section, AMIHINTs have penetrated two radio stations in
Havana and are identifying all Sov/Bloc personnel employed there,
their security practices, addresses and routes for commuting.
2) Total AMHINT Support for September 1962: $5,000.00

(Included in AMSPELL General section of this report)

3) Intelligence Production:

(Reported in AMSPELL General Section.)

4) Development & Plans:

(See this section under AMSPELL General of this report)

C. AMBARB

During the reporting period no changes occurred in AMBARB
personnel assignments. With the exfiltration of AMHINT-53) from
PBRUMEN it is hoped that it will be possible to negotiate with
AMBARB the still unsettled question of AMBARB funding. We will
report further to Headquarters as soon as an agreement is reached
with AMBARB on funding of AMBARB representatives in the field by
local KUBARK Stations. For the present it can only be said that
the AMBARB leaders are strenuously resisting any effort by JMWAVE
to increase to more than eight the number of their people whom
they will permit KUBARK to furd.directly rather than through AMBARB
Headquarters in Miami.

The inspection tour of AMBARB-16 to delegations in
Latin America resulted in the general. report forwarded for your
information as Attachment D: in reading this report, it is useful
for reference purposes to examin Attachment E a report which the
AMBARB office has prepared on its general progress since inception
53a
USE PREVIOUS EDITION
CLASSIFICATION
S-E-C-R-E-T
CONTINUED
PAGE NO
4
5/BR
14-00000

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
DISPATCH SYMOVAL AND NUMBLR
S-E-C-R-E-T
UFGA-6140

of the AMBARB program. As Attachment F we forward a special
report prepared by AMBARB-16 on AMBARB mailing operations cap-
abilities.

Individual reports on the activities of AMBARB overseas
delegations are forwarded in the following Attachments, which
Headquarters may wish to bring to the attention of KUBARK Area
Divisions or Stations as it deems best:

G. Bolivia
H. Brazil
I. Costa Rica
J. Chile
K. Colombia
L. Ecuador
M. Mexico
N. Panama
O. Peru
P. Uruguay
Q. Venezuela

The AMBARB salary schedule for September is forwarded
as Attachuent R.

END OF DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
PAGE NO
1394
Y
CONTINUED
14-00000

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL
jose antonio echeverric con tus ideas en marcha

SALARY-1-30 September, 1962

DEPENDANTS ALLOWANCES:
Dependants - Alberto Muller (La Isla de Pinos) US$ 200.00
Miguel Lasa (CT Catrusion) 200.00
Rodolfo Vidal (Savana Ups.) 200.00
Jorge de Armas (No in Isla de Finos) 225.00
US$ 825.00

DRE EXECUTIVE AND ADMINISTRATYB:
Luis Fernandez Rocha Sec. General US$ 275.00
Jose M. Lasa Sec. Propaganda 275.00
Fernando Garcia Chacon Sec. Actas 250.00
Jose A. Gonzalez Lanuza Sec. Relaciones Interiores 325.00
Elio Mas Hernandez Sec. Planificacion 275.00
General Fatjo Sec. Finnanzas 275.00
Raquel Lavilla (Cecilia) Ast. Inteligecia y visas 180.00
Ronnie Ramos Ast. Propaganda 200.00
Zoila Diaz Ast. Propaganda 150.00
Teresa Valdos Hurtado Ast. Archivo y Propaganda 150.00
Elvira Weiss Ast. Rel. Internas 150.00
Mercedes Ramirez Pelephone 150.00
Luisita Esquiroz Ast. Rel. Internas 110.00
Lula Santos Ast. Propaganda 100,00
US$2865.00.

SUBSISTENCE ALLOWANCES FUTURS CPS:
Ana Diaz Silveira Ast. Finanzas US$ 200.00
Maria V. de los Reyes Ast. Archivo y Prop. 120.00
Isabel Alonso Ast. Informacion 170.00
Carlos Bravo Ast. Propaganda 80.00
Angelica Martinez ast. Finanzas y visas waiver 100.00
Luis Gutierrez' -elegrafist 150.00
Carlos A. Huller Ast. Propaganda 125.00
US$ 945.00
./....

att 3 UFGA GIYO 19-120-26/3
ATT "B"
14-00000

DIRECTORIO. REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL
jose antonio echeverria con tus ideas en marcha

- 2-

MILITAR INFILTRATION OPS TRAINING:
Bernabe Pena Militar Cord OPS US$ 275.00
Gilberto Aleman Trainee #1 150.00
Francisco Calvet Trainee #2 175.00
Carlos DiQuesne Trainee # 3 125.00
J. M. Fiol Trainee #4 325.00
Angel A. Fontanils Trainee #5 225.00
Francisco Garcia Trainee #6 120.00
Julio Jo Trainee # 7 120.00
Carlos Obregon Trainee #8 (Tele) 170.00
Lesmes Ruiz Trainee #9 200.00
Arnaldo Santa Cruz Trainee # 10 150.00
Ernesto Fernandez Trainee # 11 200.00
Jon Koch Trainee # 12 250.00
Julian Gomez Maritime Militar - 100.00
Lazaro Fariñas Trainee # 13. 100.00
Enrine Torres Maritime Militar 100.00
Sec. Asuntos Militares 375.00
Juan M. Salvat Trainee # 14 100.00
Ignacio Arjona Resp. Asuntos Navales 200.00
Albor Ruiz Trainee #15 200.00
Luis Camps Trainee # 16 (Naval) 150.00
Julio Hernandez Rojo In Cuba (his family) 200.00
Raul de Cespedes Ast. Militar 125.00
Maria Doardo Ast. Militar 130.00
Isidro Borja Ast. Sec. Aasuntos Militares 100,00
US$ 4365.00

Dependats Allowances US$ 825.00
DRE Office and Executive 2865.00
Subistence Allowance 945.00
Militar Inf. Ops. Training 4365.00

US$ 9000.00

Responsable de Finanzas DRE
14-00000

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL
jose antonio echeverria con tus ideas en marcha

MIAMI 30 AUGUST 192
INTERNATIONAL SECTION PAYROLL CONT.!

HAIN OFFICE
1) Eduardo Mñiz Melo Coordinator- 275.00 for Ang 62
2) Vario Pita Garcis Sub-Cooruinator-325.00
3) Evello Ley Fernance Contacts : Sinace-250.00----
4) Aida Rodrimez Menicz Secretary Typist-200.00----
5) Margarita Esquiroz Martinez-Translator- 170.00----

RADIO CENTRAL & SOUTH AMICA
6) re.ro Ynterian Garcia ab-coordinator---- 275.00----
7) Clara Alvarez rerez sst Secretary 120.00-

PHOTOGRAPE DEPARTENT
2) Jose I. Rodriguez Lombillo---Sub-Coordinator 300.00-
9) Jouquin Martinez de rinillos----Rioto Tech-- 250.00!
10) Antonio Abella Caluerin ----Photographer -2000---

ARGENTINA
11) Rogello Helu Vital aiting Visa 350.00
12) Alejandro rortes Cortada-aiting for visa--300.00----

BOLIVIA
13) Amado Jones Roipl nes Sept 1961 ---200.00
14) Bite Bento consatez ------Jecember er 200.00
15) Jose Adolfo Barro Garcia-aiting to be approved--200.00-

BRAZIL
16) Raul Gonzalez Simon October 1961 150.
I) Jose Vega Rivera October 1sel-...... -
Carlos Valdesuso Rodriquez------January 1952-------- 3200.00.
19) Guillermo Asper Valdes -- ---December 1961-------
20) Pedro Castello 1062 200.0O--
21) Benito Diaz Faret -Jane 1962-........ 200.00
22) Jorge Guerra Guerra-December 1:51----------- 350.00----
23) Carlos Badias Vazquez waiting to se Approved-250.CC----

CHILE
:
25) Rafael Esptrosa arata Jane isec 230.00
5)tolis Mesa Viileniño 395.00
27) Luis Flueras Vaides -November 1861 -- 200.00

att RYOUFGA 640 19-124-26/3
14-00000

CONTINATIO
COSTA RICA
DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL
jose antonio echevertia con tus ideas en marcha

31 Evello Companioni Esteva ---------October 1961 -200.00----
(12) Jore Hermida Arenas --- October 1901 ----
30) Julian Dante Fernandez ----July 1962 200.00.
(31) Armando del rozo October 19615.00-

COLOMBIA
Joso A. Guerra Rodriguez-January 1962----- 275.00---
33) Andres de la Rosa------ ------January 1962--200.00-
34) Kelson Federico Better potres-----May 1962 200.00----
35) Rolando Castaño ---January 1962 200.00----

ECHIDOR
(2) Harael grizendo dento ember inf
37) Francisco siaded Secaili-----January 1962 ---- 200.00----

HOOURAS
32) Fernando Arco lerna.dez ------Waiting to be approved-225.00----
30) Eduardo Tomas Terres Ramos---aiting to be approved-225.00----

MEXICO
Angel Cazzalez-rermandez September
11) Jore porticos Arlegal ---Kovember 1961 300.00----
42) Martin Horua Arrecinea waiting for visa 200.00----
43) Carlos Garcia Soler Waiting for visa 250.00---

PAAA
:
(44) Jorge Mendi utia Ramirez-October 1961 200.00
(5) Jorge Carben Garcia -May 1961 275.00----

PERU
!
-46) Rolando Fernandez Corredera -----October 1961---300.00---
47) Lestor Campaneris angel October 1961--250.00
48) Sixto Raciales äss Waiting for visa------200.00--
49) Ricardo hubiales 309-------- -Waiting for visa---200.00----
.:

REPUBLICA DODICANA
50) Pablo Acmaa -May 1962 250.CC----
51) Delio Gonzalez Waiting for visa 250.00----

URUSJAY
(52) Cario Garcia Gonzalez --July 1962 250.00-----
53) Armando Frias Mesa July 1962--- 250.00----
54 Rene Morato Fontera -July 1962 225.00----
14-00000

CONTIGATION
DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL
jose antonio echeverria con tus ideas en marcha

VENEZUELA
5.5
5
Rafael Tremols Fresneda ----September 1961 -275.00
vouquin Perez thedrinios101
57) Jose Gonzalez Llorente ------- -November 1961-20000----
58) Lorenzo Martin Rodriguez ----Bovember 1961----. -200.00----
59 Luis Boza Dominues - June 1961 -200.00
-
60 Ricardo Rodriguez Jimenez--May 1961 -200.00-
61) Ramon Caler Rivero --May 1962 ---- -200.CO----
62) Roberto Prego Novo ------------May 1961 --200.00---
$12,240.00
TOTAL ACOUNT INTERNATIONAL PAYROLL, RECEIVED FIVE DAYS LATE
ON SEPTE FER 1962........

SATOR
INTE JR.
LOKAL FINANCE
14-00000

F.
DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL
josé antonio echeverría con tus ideas en marcha

REPORT

Daring the recent trisus tarou n the vele ations in Latin
Americe, the results of the seal of roy wil to Caba
were reported to me. .or the better understamain, of the a res-
cents reucued, we will now explain them within euch Dele ation visit-
ed.
-

The vele ation at veneraela sent some montas ao prop ands wo sent
them to be called to cats. moy used the lists of adresses iven by
itojer.
:
Venczdela nas contime cale systém asi, to props nis edited by the
asra the propene eared in Venezuela. in avere a or 1,700
letters was sent uri, Ji June, and Jaly, ali tem from Caracas
one contin, from Maracaibo another contu, and from caroalsimeto unstner.
All security means were smaled that they be sent by ifererant persone
afficient cong, t tre olur, si no sonomertive, stamps
be used, ordinary envelopes, at alles in all post offices, etc.)
with

ne

The Jelction et shell also sent the pros tis given by no er, at
no reply sus potuined from any person. de stealed the security means
ard the conditions for the genuin of the propa puniato Cuca.
Deletion remerked on the risk ran wit.. the mail and the violations
to mich it is subject in prasil (they emplined time the series of
post office employees are so low that they tae of the stamps from
the ictters when they ave not been merken, to sell them, and then
they destroy the letter.

They sent 1,500 letters darin, ley, Jane, si Jaly.
JEJTAY.

c uld not send the propada to craquay because then we had no Deles-
thon there.
그리
The Dele stion alle sent the third groande ve Rover,
which was the prope ands on the members of the Lets of July that
are Laprisoned or bzen еxесаtеd. mey sent 1,200 letters.

alfi buFCA 6140 19-124-2013
14-00000

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL
josé antonio echeverría con tus ideas en marcha

The list of adresses da to be eviously caccked up, because
tacio acre persons in 15 actually sorin, in the under-
round, and the senior siaressed to them could,
consegaently, piace them ander retiner.

300710 de L 2.3
Calz
14-00000
1
ام

3. Watle AHINT AiNta now POPRIME, he will detersine ASIELL policy
8 approved by the AMPLI Futive Committee. However, the activities of
the last four months wereplanned and controlled by 4.20 and Assisting
him were AMINT-SA Bernabe PENA, who were present at tale meeting. After
the ARARS discussion, the meeting turned into a long discussion of the
International Communiet situation, ODYOKE, AIDARK and AMSTELL policies as
related to this situation. Some of the noteworthy iteas revealedt

a. ANSPELL had the 24 August Havana attack plan for six monthe, but
had sholved it for the "right tims" and a considered decision
not to embark upon a course independent of KURARK approval. The
Sov/blea buildup changed that decision.

b. AMSPELL analyzes the situation as hopeless for the PBRUMEN
revelutionary movements after four months becauses

1- The Soviets will be firmly established and ODYOKR policy as
defined by GPIPEFAL tends toward and will probably result in
a hemisphere no eptance of PRIMEN AS A satellite.

3- After four months, the degree of police controls, repression
and persecution will make any internal action in civie
resistance and guerrilla warfare virt ally impossible.

6. AMSPELL feels that ODYOKE policy on PBI: MEN cannot be influenced
by the rising tide of public opinion and congressional action,
partly because UPINFAL is surrounded by a group of advisors
who are "one step from being parlor pinks or wores". The list
began with Chester BOWLES.
ان

d. This situation is not an originst AMSPELL ๑๖orvation. During
his European travel in August, AilNT-2 went to the Vatican
for a meeting (claimed to be high level) which had been arranged
some time ago, its impression of thinking in the Vatican re
World Communist advance, was that ODYOKE or FOPRIME was no longer
calculated as an effective power for defending the world against
total takoover. That the Catholic Church was beginning the long
process of preparing their forces for a war 14 dominated ty
Cosamunian.

4. As a result of their observations and analysis, AMSPELL haa assumed
A "uow or never" attitude and policy. They feel they must resort to tactics
that mold PURRIME public opinion and bring pressure to bear on OLYOKE and
OPIDEAL for action in the PORUMIN situation, Latin America must also be kept
aware and urged to support an action. They would hope that such an AMSPELL
policy and resultant activity would not be interpreted as opposition or
hostility to KULARY or ODYOKE, and that their KBARK relationship would
Ruvive the critical months before then. They recognize that KURARK is
bound by policy and burdened by a bureaucracy, and feel that the actions
although independent and uncontrolled - of AMSPELL Eight contribute
to the formation of action policy in PDRUMEN, despite consternation in.
ZRAETAL.
REV

BAN
3188
14-00000

A.-2, 3 N Per
23 September 1962
Tip-Top Restaurant, Cora Gable.
01

1600-1830 h.

Harold R. NOHMAYR
C.

1. The meeting with AM:11VT-2 was to clarify the continuing sisunder
standing and disagreement over AMBARB funding. The original AMBAR policy
meeting with AND ST2 was reviewed, and AMHINT Polated rapolated out that it was
not agreed that KAIKOistet ons wou'd pay all AMLARBS, h t only the cuverts.
Without going over the fire evolution of the AWARD project fanding, It
was pointed up to ANTT that the project was a two-way arrangement, of
grent mutual conventence, alt we must find a functional "alddle-ground"
which to operate, although it may not be entirely satisfactory to either of
the parties. AliT agreed, an the following ground rules were arrived
at as a workable fuminplant

8. AMBARDs assigned as overt AMSPELL representatives will be fuated
by AMSPELL from last on all future assignments. Those now being funded by
station will remain s atus quo.
:

b. Covert AMHARBS for station contact will be assigned by indiv
processing, both parties agreed, and station will fund and control.
٥٠
Re the four pending cases where stations have request'd funding
as soon as possible - a meeting is to be held where each case will ৯০
considered individually and decided upon.

2. While this arrangement is not entirely acceptable, it is believed
that upon the return of All NT-53 to the operational control, a batter
arrangement can be made,
01
(LDLIFGH 6140

-1
19-124-2013
AT
[GIGR]
14-00000

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL
jose antonio echeverria con tus ideas en marcha

PORT

SUBJECT. Biusrio Muñiz trip to Latin America.

Tale rep rt is aimed