104-10177-10219

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED BY CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: MATLACK, DIECTHEK. (MRS)
LEASE DOCUMENTS

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: Army Document (3rd Agency)

DATE  | DATE      | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
------|-----------|--------------------------|---------------------------------
3.AUG78|           | BETH LICHTENFELS.        | 
24 Aug 78| SAME      | SINDREL BRADY           |  
24 Aug 78| SAME      | JAMES R Kelly            |  

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---
14-00000

RESORO MATERIAL

QUE DATE

1. THIS DOCUMENT IS CHARGED TO του.

2. RETURN THIS DOCUMENT TO IP/ARCHIVES,
RM GA-50, ON OR BEFORE DATE INDICATED.

3. IF YOU FORWARD THIS DOCUMENT TO ANOTHER
INDIVIDUAL PLEASE CALL EXTENSION 4598

DO NOT REMOVE THIS FORM

35. Corbat
OG/EFR

To Requester:
Please return this reference
to IP/ARD/PSU immediately after
use.

RECORDS CENTER
JOB NO. 78-1939
SPACE NO. 325583

FILE NO. - CIA-Sec-384
DOCUMENT
FOLDER NO. 54
BOX NO 3

E2 IMPDET CL BY: 062147
UNCLASSIFIED

RETURN TO:
IP/ARD/PSU
CA-50

610
SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL USE ONLY

falder 54
Mash-CIA-PRO-384

---
14-00000

-E1-

CHILE
Apr., 1952

BRIEFS

WORKERS HOUSING--An executive message to the Chamber of Deputies
asks for the authorization of 120 million pesos for the construction of
cheap housing for workers employed by the city of Santiago. The bill will
be considered soon by the proper committee. (CE1180 Santiago,
Apr. 4, 1952, 0030 GMT--R)

TRANSPORTATION APPROPRIATION--The Finance Ministry has dispatched the decree
putting 94 million pesos at the disposal of the national transport
authority for the acquisition of trolley buses and supplies to the
comptroller's office. (CE1174 Santiago, apr. 4, 1952, 0100 CMC--R)

TEACHERS STRIKE--At the meeting of striking teachers held Apr. 3 it was
decided to adopt the following procedural points: 1--To continue the
strike indefinitely; 2--to demand that salaries be fixed at a rate equal
to that of the minimum paid to private employees, plus 20 percent; 3--to
protest the refusal of two Deputies to give their votes to the craft of a
bill to readjust the earnings of public officials, which also provides that
exonerated Communist professors will be reinstated; 4--to protest an anti
strike editorial published in EL MERCURIO; 5--to meet on apr. 4 at the
University of Chile to determine the course to follow. (CEll7h Santiago,
Apr. 4, 1952, 0100 GMI--R)

COPPER SITUATION--The Minister of Labor has declared that as long as the
Finance Ministry does not solve the problen of exchange, the nitrate dispute
cannot be solved. (CE1174 Santiago, apr. 4, 1952, 0100 GMT--R)

FORSIGN MINISTRY-Juan (Marin) has been authorized to continue in his post
as Chilean Charge d'Affairs in India, and Juan Guzven Cruchaja in hir
important Foreign Ministry assignment. (CE1174 Santiago, Apr. 4, 1952,
0100 GT-R)

EMIGRATION PLAN--The Scciedad Italiara plans to irvést 100 million pesos
for the purpose of cultivating and exploiting sugar beet crops in southern
Chile with colonies of Italian imiigrants. The society is collaborating
with the Development Corporation and the Agricultural Settlement Food and
Vili 16,000 hectares in the Province of Caïtin for the purpose.
(0374 Santiago, Apr. 4, 1952, 0300 GMT--R

---
14-00
PESTRICTED

- E3-
CHILE
Mar. 18, 1952

PRESS FIELDGA COMMITTLE--the fresident will form a committee for the purpose
of studying laws which include repressive measures against the freedom of the
press, on Mar. 18 at La Moneda. Press representatives are Emilio Pacul,
Juân Honorato, and Mario Vergara. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, Mar. 17, 1952,
2322 GMT--R)

COAL SITUATION--Reports from the coal region state that the situation is
normal and that the workers have decided to work with provincial authorities
in trying to reach an agreement after the failure of the Santiago talks.
Metallurgical workers at the Lota and Coronel mines have returned to work
in accordance with union directives. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, Mar. 17, 1952,
2325 GMT--R)

CHAMBER PRESIDENTIAL LINE-UP--Since the Chamber of Deputies will meet
Mar. 18 to open the special session which will extend to May 21, it is
interesting to note the position and strength of its members in regard to
the roster of Fresidential aspirants: Favoring Arturo Matte Larrain are
33 Liberals, 2i Conservative-Traditionalists, 5 Agrarian Labcrites,
2 Liberal-Progressives, and one Independent Democrat, or a total of 63.
Favoring Pedro Enrique Alfonso are 42 Radicals, 9 Conservatives and 5
Democrats: total, 56. Carlos Ibanez del Campo: 9 Agrarian Laborites,
5 Socialists, one People's Democrat, and 2 Independent Conservatives;
total, 17. Salvador Allende: 6 Socialists and one National Front; total,
7. The only unknown positions and numbers are those of the National
Falangists, and the Independent Deputy, Melendez Anfruns. (Santiago,
EL TARAPACA, Mar. 16, 1952, 2350 GMT--R)

GATH Y CHAVEZ CLOSING--Gath y Chavez has announced a closing-out of its
entire stock of merchandise, thus terminating the career of one of
Santiago's best-known business houses. The company closed its doors last
Christmas as a result of a strike declared by its personnel. (Santiago,
AFP, Mar. 15, 1952, 0000 GMT--R)

IMMIGRATION PROGRAM--The bill drafted by the Government Immigration
Committee, presided over by Under Secretary of the Interior Grès, is
designed to legislate all matters connected with the immigration ef
foreigners. The plan proposes the creation of an immigration department
or office which will be under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs and which will be in charge of orienting all immigrants arriving
in Chile. Also under consideration is the plan to exempt all immigrants
from paying taxes for a period of 5 years. This would include custors
duty on their property and machinery as well as income tax. (Santiago,
EL TARAPACA, Mar. 14, 1952, 2326 GMT--R)

---
14-00000

RESTRICTED
-84-
CHILE
Mar. 18, 1952

NAVAL APPONENTS--With the retirement of Vice Admira's Carlos Torres
Hevic, Incanuel Holger, and Horacio de la Fuente, the Navy will reportedly
make sore important promotions. Besides raising Naval Capt. Danilo Basi
to the rank of Rear Admiral, and raising Enrique Lagreze and Francisco
Ovarsen to naval captains, Victor Oelkers has been made rear acciral,
and Alberto (Cass) Wigand, Cuan Mercado Munoz, and alfred Lopez have
been made naval captains. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, Mar. 15, 1952,
2310 GT-R)
:
FISHING STRIKE--Valparaiso fisherman have joined the Talcahuano fishermen
who declared a strike to protest against the Furse Seine fishing enter-
prises. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, Mar. 15, 1952, 2320 GT-R)

"U.S. PASTOR--Protestant U.S. Paster Erickson, whose activities have
been attacked in many sectors where he has held public religious meetings,
will soon go to Santiago where he will hold meetings in the Caupolican
Theater. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, Mar. 15, 1952, 2335 GMT--R)

MINING TAX--The Governmsat has imposed a one and one-hali percent tax on
sales made by "small" mining companies. All companies capitalized at
less than 5 million pesos fall under this category. (Santiago, EL TARAPAÇA,
Mar. 15, 1952, 2340 GAT--R)

HOUSING CONSTRUCTION--From the total of 200 million pesos allotted for
public housing by the Ministry of Public Works, 20 million will go to
Iquique and Santiago respectively, 25 million each to Arica and Antofagasta,
30 millica to Coquimno, 40 million to Valparaiso, and 10 million each
to Concepcion, Cautin, Magallanes, and Llanquihue Provinces. (Santiago,
EL TARAPACA, War. 13, 1952, 2334 GMT--R)

HYDROELECTRIC PLANT--Guillermo Moore, manager of the Empresa Nacional de
Electricidad has announced that a tew central hydroelectrić plant will
shortly be constructed on Rio Rapel and three more will bo constructed
in the southern zone. (Santiago /Official, Diplomatic, Mar. 14, 1952,
1553 GT--R)

CHILEAN SWEDISH TRADE--The Minister of Foreign Affairs received the
Swedish Enisier who proposed negotiations for the drafting of a
commercial and cultural treaty. This treaty is designed to increase
the exchange of Swedish-manufactured products and machinery for Chilean
Agriculturél products and minerals. (Santiago /official/, Diplomatic,
Mar. 14, 1952, 1555 CAT-R)

---
14-00000
Form No. 13-8

FROM: FRANKFURT
Το 00/CPC/OSO
ACTIONS 00/св

INCOMING CLASSIFIHESSAGE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
SECRET

"SECURITY INFORMATION"

PAGE NJ.
ROUTINE
27 DEC 51
IN 49477

INFORMATION: AD/SO (1), OPS (2), PLANS (3), STC (4), FDM (5-6),
OPC (7-8-9-10)/ S/C (11-12-13) DOP (11)

Paraphrase Not Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Pars. 51 (1) 60A AR-380-5

FRAN 3173
TO: WASHINGTON (ASHCRAFT)
PIPELINE
REUR 446 (OUT 95394)
INFO:
KARLF
TRANG
CITE: FRAN (CEUDEN)

REF FASSED MOFFETT WHO PAS BEEN EXPLORING WITH CANADIANS. THEY
DON'T SEEM INTERESTED. ONLY LIKELY BUYER BELIEVED TO BE ANOTHER 3.A..
COUNTRY SCH AS ARGENTINA BOTH WHOM WE HAVE NO CONTACTS. WE CERTAINLY
NOT, ABLE CÓ ANYTHING HERE WHICH CAN'T BE VORE EFFECTIVELY DONE WESTERN
HEMISPHERE WITHOUT EXPENSE MOVING FAMILY BACK TO GERMANY AND THEI! ON
OUT AGAIN.

TAK072 27 DEC 51
SECRET
COPY NO.

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

---
14-00000
Furto No. 38-6

OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
SECRET
PAGE NO

SECURITY INFORMATION
ERANKFURT
To:
ROUTINE
00/OPC/OSO
FROM:
20 DEC 51
00/св
CONFIRMATION:
AD/SC (1), OPS (2), PLANS (3), STC (4), (2), FDM (5-6),
INFORMATION: OPC (7-8-9-10), WHO (11), S/C (12-13-14), OOP (15
OUT 9539

NR. 1446
Paraphrase Not Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Pas: SI (1).60.4 AR-388-5

TO: FRANKFURT (CRUDEN)
PIPELINE
INFO: FRANFG
CITE: WASHINGTON (ASHCRAFT!

JANNEY OF ZACABIN SAYS HE GAVE ROBINOW BACKGROUND ON AERONAUTICAL
ENGINEER AMONG CHILEAN DISPOSAL GROUP AND ROBINOW PROMISED EXPLORE
POSSIBILITY GETTING HAI INTO CANADA THROUGH GERMAN CONTACTS. ZACABIN
ANXIOUS TO FINISH CHILEAN DISPOSAL OPERATION 15 JANUARY. THIS ONE WAL
REFUSE'S WORK AT ANYTHING EXCEPT AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING, FOR WHICH JO
NOT AVAILABLE CHILE. ADVISE SOONEST WHAT ROBINOW HAS DONE OR WHAT HE
CAN DO. ZACABIN THINKING OF MOVING DEFECTOR BACK TO GERMANY, WHERE THE
MIGHT LAND IN YOUR LAP.

21-7-1
RELEASING OFFICER
ORIGINATING AND COORDINATING OFFICERS
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
02522 21 DEC 51
TOD:
SECRET

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

---
14-00000
Form No. どーる
(Dec. 1947)
OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
SECRET

SATITIAGO
To:
SPECIAL OPERATIONS
FROM:
WED (1-2)
CONFIRMATION:
INFORMATION:
Pact No
ROUTINE
30 AUG 51
จนต 703

IR (3-4), 40/50 (5), OPS (6), PLANS (7), STC (8), FDS (9),
FDM (10), S/C. (11-12-13)

Paraphrase Not Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Pars. $1 (1) 604 AR-SD-S
WASH 06075
TO: SAGOF
CITE: PASHE
:
RE: SAGO 305 (IN 21937), WASH 04807 (OUT 71940

HEADQUARTERS WAS UNABLE TO STOP DEPARTURE OF SUBJECT,
A POLE, WHO LEFT BY PLANE FOR CHILE ON 21 AUGUST, AS OUR
INTERAGENCY DEFECTOR COMITTEE WAS NOT CONSULTED. FULLNESS
SHOULD BE ADVISED THAT WE NOT INVOLVED IN THIS CASE. SUBJECT
IS NOT A DEFECTOR THEN IDCOP NO. 1 REGULATIONS. THEREFORE
YOU SHOULD ASSURE NO RESPONSIBILITY FOR HIM UNLESS HE BECOLES.
INVOLVED WITH OTHER DEFECTORS IN WHICH CASE IT FOULD PROBABLY
BE TO OUR INTEPEST AND INTEREST OF PROGRAM IS TO BE ADVISED.
BY DA THAT RESPONSIBILITY IS HIS.

LGRESHAM..
RELEASING OFFICIE
DS
OURCINATING AND COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
HJACKELLOPS
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
Lozr No
317
IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

---
14-00000

28 August 1951
MEMORANDUM POR: Chairman, CIA Defector Cocadttee

FROM
SUBJECT
OSO Representative, CIA Defector Committee

Aray Disposal Action on iefector to Chile.

1. On 17 August 1951, CIA received a priority cable (I3 21787)
from Santiago adrising that the Chilean Consul in Frankfurt, Germany,
had requested authority from his Foreign Office to issue an "ordinary
visa" to oπιπλα Σταίοez, a Fussian defestor (actually a Polish defoo-
tor), ctating that ácerican Intelligence had requested the visa on the
same basis as in the case of earlier defectors. Santiago indicated that
Chilean officials did not look on this with favor.

2. On 17 August the undersigned was able to ascertain that
Borcaios had darested to the 66th Detachment, CIA, in Germany in late
May 1951 and since that time had been held in ECIC.

3. On 17 August CIA queriod German Station (OST 71605) as to why
Borowies had not been placed in the DRC and requested that Borowies be
sent to Chile..

4. On 17 August 1951, the undersigned telephoned Ers, Porothy
Matlack, C2, and requested her to have a cable sant to Germany by G-2
forbidding the disposal of Borowies to Chile. The undareigned provided
Mrs. Hatlock with the serial number of the pertinent CIC memo. irs. kate
lack stated that she would do everything possible to have this cable sent
even if it required her to come in the next day, which wac Saturday.

5. On 20 August CIA advised Santiago (OUT 71940) that it had no
lmowledge regarding this disposal action and was opposed to any more
disposal actions to Calle at this time.

6. On 22 August, CIA received a reply from Germany (12 22176)
stating that this Borowies natter was ontirely within the province of
CIC and under the circumstances it was impossible for CIA in Cermany
to have had the body sent to the 150. It was also stated that ID EECOM
was arranging for departure on 21 August 1951. The undersigned Line-
diately advised Mrs. Katlack of this ETD and she stated that she της
doing all she could to have a priority cable sent at once.

7. On 22 August about 1500 hours, Ara. Hatlock telephoned the
undersigned and stated that G-2 did not have a copy of the referonsod
CIC mezzo. She revuested the undersigned to cake over to the Pentacon
immediately in order to exhibit the CIA sopy of the CIA memorandus, en
otherwise G2 would not sond out the desired orble to CIC, Germany.
This the underal goed ild and such a cable res eventually sont out
priority by G-2 to Germany (IN W 23593).
SECRET

---
14-00000

SECRET
8. On 27 August 1951, CIA received word from Germany (13 23898)
that on 21 Agust Doronios had left by plane for Chile and would
apparently require no assistance there since he had his own funds.

SECRET
i
Walter C. Janney
:

---
14-00000

Form No. 35-8
INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

FROM:
KARLSR HE
To:
SPECIAL OPERATIONS
ACTION:
FDM (1-2-3)
Janney
ALL WHD

PACE NO
POUTINE
25 AUGUST 51
IN 23-99

NFORMATION: 18 (4-5),AD/SO (1),OPS (7),PLANS (3),5/3 (9-10-11), (12)
STC (13)

Parsphrase Not Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondence par Para I (1) BLARGOS
KARL 3118
TO: WASHF
INFO: HEIDF, UNIF
CITE: KARLF

RE: KARL 3082, (IN 22716)

1. 10 EUCON ADVISES REQUEST TO RICCIO FOR BOROVICZ DISPOSAL
CHILE MADE BY ECIC.

2. 2000ICZ LEFT 21 AUGUST FOR CHILE BY PLANE. SAS OWN FUNDS
APPARENTLY REQUIRING NO US. HELP IN SETTLEMENT CHILE.

3. ID EUCOM RECEIVED DA CASH CA LE AVOUNTING TO REPRIVAND FOR
HADLING BOROWICZ ENIGRATION WITHOUT COORDINATION, ALSO POINTING
OUT ZACABAL NOT CO SULTED.

10512 25 AUG 51
TOR:
SECRET
Corr No

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

---
14-00000
Vurm No. १

Tos
FROM:
CONFIRMATIONI
OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
SANTIAGO
SPECIAL OPERATIONS
MD (1-2)
SECRET
PACE NO.
ROUTINE
23 AUG 51
CUT 72590

INFORMATION: 1815), AC/10(5), PLANS (6), FOS (7), OPS CDP 9)
5/C110-11-12), OPG (13-14-15-16-17-18-19-20--1)

Paraphrase Not Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Pars. 51 (1) 60A AR-300-3
10: SACOF

RE: SACO 503 (IN 20501) PARA 2A
CITE: WASHF

DEPORTATION OF SUBJECT NO INTEREST OR RESPONSIBILITY OF
HEADQUART SAS OR YOUR STATION AND WE NOT WILLING ASSUME ODA IGATION
OR EXPENSE THIS CONNECTION. SUCH DECISION STRICTLY UP TO FULLNESS.

V.L. CRE
BELEASING OFFICE
HUNGK
05
ORIGINATING AND COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
J. CELLO'S
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
Cort No.
IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE
TOD:27 25 200 51

---
14-00000
FORM.
OCT 1980
13-5
INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
DEPARTMENT OF ARMY
Faom:
HEIDELBERG
To:
DEPARTMENT OF ARMY
ACTION::
SECRET
PACE No

PRIORITY
22 AUG 51.
IN" 23393

(3), STC (4), FDI (5), FDS (6),
(1) (2), OPS (3)
IPORMATIONID (7), RC (s), 3/6 (c)

Paraphrase Not Required. Handle as TOP SECRET Correspondence per Pare. 51 (1) 60A AR-380-5
NR: DA 99529
TO: CINCEUR HEIDELBERG GERMANY
FOR DI FROM G2.
:
SUBJECT IS BOGUSLABOROTEZ, INFO HERE THAT CHILEA!!
CONSUL RICCIO, FRALKFORT ROSTED CHILEAN FON OFFICE ISSUE-
ORDINARY VISA TO SUBJECT AS OF 31 JULY, STATED AMER INTEL
ROSTED VISA ON SANE BASIS AS PREVIOUS DEFECTORS, CAS ALLEGES
THAT THEY LOT NOTIFIED OF DOROLEZ DEFECTION ALTHOUGH HE
IN CUSTODY 66 CIC DET SINCE 26 MAY 51. ROST INFO REF ROLE
OF 66 CIC DET IN SUBJECTS DEFECTION AND FUPTHER DATA AS. TO
THY IDC OPN PROCEDURE NR 1 CAS NOT FOLLOWED., ROST SUBJECT.
DE NOT RESETTLED WITHOUT CONCURRENCE OF IDC GERMANY ALSO
FOST THAT SUBJECT NOT BE RESETTLED IN CHILE IN VIE OF
DIFFICULTIES NOT HAVING WITH PLEV DEFECTORS SETTLED THERE,

ORIGIN: G2
LISTR: 02(CIA)
DA 99529
(AUC51)
DTG: 2218202

23382 25 AUG 51
TOX:
SECRET
Corr No
3
IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COFY OF THIS MESSAGE

---
14-00000
Forte No. 35-5

۱۲.COMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
CRITTRAL INTELLIGENCE ENCY
SECRET

PACE NO:
FROM:
KARLSRUHE
To:
SPECIAL OPERATIONS
ACTION:
FOM (1-2-3)
ROUTINE
21 AHAUST 51
122716

INFORMATION: (1-5),AD/SO-(6), OPS (7) PLANS (8), 5/6 (9-10-11), CUP (12)
STC (13)
Paraphrase Not Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Pars. 51 (1) 60A AR-380-5
KARL 3082
TO: WASHF
CITE: KARLF

RE: ASH 014508 (CUT 71605)

1. LATE J'LY CIC ADVISED THEY THROUSH WITH CEBRIEFING BOROWICZ
WHO WILL EE TREATED AS DISPOSAL CASE FAC 10 ANG ON AND ASKETHER
WE INTERESTED IN HIF NCE ADVISED NOT INTERESTED; BOB ADVISED INTER-
ESTED AND ASKED OB INTERVIEW HID, WALICH NOB CID 9 AUG (REPORT IN GWA
6602 EN ROUTE MUNI TO KARL AND WASH, INDICATES HE OF NO FURTHER
INTEREST SINCE CIC FULLY DEBRIEFED AND ID EUCO WAS ARRANGING FIS EN-
GRATION WITH ETD 21 AUG).

2. BOB INTEREST SIMPLY DUE TO ORIGINAL CIC INDICATIONS SINCE POB
PRIMARY BASE FOR DISPATCH SINGLETONS TO POLAND WHILE MOB TRIES SPEC-
TALIZE IN GROUP OPS.

3. PLS REALIZE WE HAD NOTHING TO DO ITH S-EXCEPT SINGLE INTER-
VIEW WHICH PRODUCED NO OPS INTEREST IN HIS RE DRC: IN CIRCUMSTANCES
THIS WAS NOT OUR CASE TO ROUTE TO DRC OR ELSEWHERE; ALSO, IT IS NOT
SOP FOR PERSONS OF B'S LEVEL AND NATIONALITY TO GO DRC.
:
IL. RF CHILEAN VISA REQUEST: WE INVESTIGATING AND WILL PEPORT
FACTS SOON..

TOR:
13258 21 ALG 51
SECRET
Corr No
IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

---
14-00000
Rora No ー

To
FROM:
CONFIRMATION:
OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
SANTIAGO
SPECIAL OPERATIONS:
1-2) פאה(.
SECRET
PACE NO

ROUTINE
:
22 AUG 51
OUT 7194

IR (3-4), AD/SO (5), OPS (6), PLANS (7), STC (8), S/C (9-10-11),
INFORMATION: FDS (12)

Paraphrase Not Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Pars. 31 (1) 60.4 AR-380-5
WASH 24597
TO: SAGOF
CITE: W:SHF
RE: SAGO 305 (IN 21787)

THIS AGENCY HAD NO KNOWLEDGE OF PLANS FOR ADDITIONAL
DEFECTOR PRIOR RECEIPT SAGO 305. MATTER BEING CHECKED AND YOU
WILL BE INFORMED OF CIRCUMSTANCES, BUT HEADQUARTERS WILL OPPOSE
SENDING MORE DISPOSAL CASES TO CHILE AT THIS TIME.

V.L. GRESHAN.
BALLARING OFTRA
TOD:
17382 23 100 51
ORIGINGTUNG AND CORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
H.J. MCKELLOPS
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
Corr No
31-3

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

---
14-00000
Porta Nis 13-6
(DC INT)
OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
SECRET
KARLSRUHE
To:
SPECIAL OPERATIONS
FROM:
FO (1-2)
CONFIRMATION:
PAGE No.
ROUTINE
17 AUC 51
ουτ 71605

18 (3-4) ADSO (5) OPS (6) PLANS (7) S/C (9-10-11)
-INFORMATION: DDP (12), STC (13)
Paraphrase Not Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Pars. 51 (1) 60A AR-389-5
WASH 04608
TO: KARLF
CITE: WASHF

RE: KARL 2945 (IN 18811)

1. SANTIAGO ADVISES CHILEAN FONOF RECEIVED DISPATCH
DATED 31 JULY FROM ITS FRAN CONSUL, RICCIO PEQUESTING
AUTHORITY ISSUE "ORDINARY VISA" TO SUBJECT STATED AMERICAN
INTELL REQUESTED VISA ON SAME BASIS PREVIOUS DEFECTORS.

2. IN VIEW COMPLICATIONS CHILEAN DEFECTOR SITUATION
NO DISPOSOL OP TO CENTRAL OR SCUTH AMERICA TO BE INITIATED
WITHOUT PRIOR HEADQUARTERS APPROVAL. PILS ADVISE WHO
INITIATED REQUEST PARA 1 AND HOLD UP ACTION THIS CASE
PENDING INSTRUCTIONS FROM HQ.

3. ADVISE(A) WHY SUBJECT WAS NOT TURNED OVER TO
DRC FOR DEBRIEFING PER CURRENT OPERATING, PROCEDURES?

(B) SUBJECT'S PRESENT STATUS, LOCATION.

(C) CLARIFICATION BOS INTEREST SUBJECT SUBSEQUENT
MOB ACTION.

4. RE MGSA 4088. NO IDENTIFIABLE TRACES ROTNICK
CR TEPLITZ-SCUBLITSKY. ASSUME CIC FOLLOWING UP CE ASPECTS
AND ACTIVITIES WEST GERMANY.

H. CUNNINGHAN
BELEASING OFTICLE

TOD
CL.022 18 AUG 51
SECRET
IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE
JANEY
Corr No.

---
14-00000
Form No.5
Apr

FROM:
To:
Асты:
SANTIAGO
INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.
SECRET
SPECIAL OPERATIONS
WHD (1-2)
PS CRITY
15 AUG 51
1787
PAGE NO.

INFORMATION:
S400 305.
AD/SO (3), OPS (1), PLANS (5), STC (6), FDS (7)
S/C (8-9-10), DDP (11)
Jam51
0-270064
Paraphrase Not Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondetice per Pers. 51 (1) 604 AR-380-5

TO: VASHE
CITE: SAGOF

CIC HP 66 Ditel
Lot Cof. Daviint
Huntoon
1. FULLNESS. ADVISED CHILEAN FOREIGN OFFICE RECEIVED
DISPATCH FROM ITS FRANKFURT CONSUL, RICCIO, DATED 31 JULY 31,
RECUESTING LUTHORITY ISSPE "ORDINARY VISAR TO VAURIOY BOROutro

BO/USLAV, RUSSIAN DEFECTOR. STATED AMERICAN, INTELLIGENCE REQUESTED
VISA EN SANE BASIS AS PREVIOUS DEFECTORS.

2. FULLNESS OPIVED ENOUGH DIFFICULTY EXISTED OVER
PRESENT DEFECTORS WITHOUT ADDING THERETO, HE HAS EEEN ASKED TO
HOLD MATTER ABEYANCE HOS COMMENTS.

3. SACO FECOMNENDS NO NEW DEFECTORS CHILE UNTIL
PRESENT PROBLERS RESOLVED AND FULLNESS ASSURED THAT UNDESIRABLES BE
RECALLED, BELIEVE DEFECTORS 47 AND 26 MOST SERIOUS
THOUGH INVESTI-
G. TION UNCOMPLETED TO DATE. DEFECTORS 36 AND 42 40 SELIEVED
REPONCILABLE. RECOMMEND FRANKFURT AUTHORITIES HANDLE SOCH WTTERS
THROUGH HOS AND THIS STATION.

S
TOR:
15192 16 40G 51
SECRET
Cory No.
1-3
IT 13 FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGS

---
14-00000

TCS-690 dtd 24 Aug 49
Ref: TCS-IF-644-

Industrial expansion of last few years in Chile
reveals shortages skilled welders, automotive mechanics, farm
machinery technicians and mechanics, factory mechanics, experienced
lathe operaters, die and mould workers, ceramics technicians--skilled.
labor and technicians in almost every industry in the country.

---
14-00000
OSC Registry
15-6-4
AESTENT OF DOCLONENT BEING CROSS FILED
-R
SUBJECT
Disposal Questionnaire
CERTINENT INFORMATIO
17 Feb 1949
TOATE
Pencilled in file No. 31-7-4-1
FORM NO.
DEC 1252
57-38
CROSS REFERENCE FORM
Kasn
COCES FILE BY
Lois Setth
29 November 195
FILE THIS FORM FILE 10.
CIA
Pro
1334
Folder 54

?

---
14-00000

Dept. of Army document
12. August 1955.
2
Hemo for: Dir, CIA, FM: Collection Dir,
Sublect: Interagency Defects. Comme Hee
Class: Secret
reica to 62-CDOA

THIRD AGENCY
