14-00000
104-10516-10195
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

FROM MEXICO C!
ACTIC/SAS 5 AC CO SLED 4:13:10 63
INFO
COPACOPA
SECRET 1310
IMMEDIATE DIR INFO JAVE CITE MEXI 7373
RYBIT TYPIC KEYEAY VASLOUCH
1305380239
REF MEXI 7359
PIR 22355
DIR 83858
ACTION CASING CERCED
viet ENT: AS-VC-2 CALL STAT
CCC DIFFICULT WITH MEXICAN CUSTOMS CN
CAGE.
ECELENLE

1. STATION OFFICER ACCOMPANIED LASLCLCH-2 AMIN TO AIRPORT
MORNING 13 DEC. AFTER ROUTINE DELAY ADMITTED TO AIR CARCO
AREA. DOCTOR'S CASE INSPECTED. THIS TIME TWO BOTTOM STUTS
ONLY WERE YISSING. VASLOUCH-2 HAD INSPECTED DAY PREVIOUSLY AND
FOUND THREE OF FOUR MISSING, NOTE THAT FIRST INSPECTION WAS IN
ANCTYER CUILDING. CONSEQUENTLY BETWEEN TIME VASLOUCK-3 SAV
BAG 12 DEC AND 1030 MORNING SOMECINZ HAD INSERTED ONE HISSING ST-5000
VADLOUCHOS DAVS אם ALSOLUTELY CERTAIN BUZ NOT MISTAXEN CONCERNING
APOVE
2. DOCTOR'S PAG AND OTHER FIVE PIECES REMOVED FROM CARGO
AREA BUT WERE NOT PASSED BY BUILDING DOOR INSPECTOR WHO INSISTED
ON OPENING ALL SIX PIECES. VASLOUCA-2 PACTESTED. CHARGE YER
LOCAL EMBASSY CONTACTED AND HE SPOKE ON TELEPHONE TO CUSTOMS
OFFICIAL TO KO AVAIL. VASLOUCH-2 THEN SAY CHIEF AIRPORT
CUSTOMS WHO REITERATED FACT THAT PARCELS VOULD BE INSPECTED

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING C.. 15 200
opy No.
لافية روسية .
ابن حميد رسالة
な
14-00000
CASSO NESPACE
SECRET
UNLESS LOCAL ENCASSY OBTAINED FREE ENTRY.
STATED REACCH נג
PAGCACE ARRIVED "DESTINATION REXICO" RATHER TEזונגי נוי וג".
CUSTORS CHIEF METUSED REGUNDIDEM 2128 AFTER OFFER OF ERICE DY
VAELOUCH-2.
3. BY THIS TIME PRACOICALLYJEVERY CARD AND CUSTOMS CFFICIAL
AIRPORT AVARE OF SITUATION AND OF ASSISTANCE DEING CIVER
VASLCUCH-2 DY STATION OFFICER WHOSE KUPORX FACE WAS CROHING
LESS AND LESS FINNISH.
4. PARCELS VERE RETURNED AIR CARCO STCRACE ARZA, ALL
INCLUDING DOCTOR'S DAS VERS FILY CARD. "ACCH-2 TEN
TURNED OVER PAPEPS TO LOCAL EMBASSY WHICH WILL COTAIN FAZE
ENTRY AND KEEP ALL PARCELS FIXI. VACLCUCH-I WILL TRAVEL EZXI SOOM
AFTER TJAN TO RECOVER THEN, CONSEQUENTLY STATION VILL NOT AVE
ACCESS TO DOCTOR'S BAG UNTIL THAT DATE.

3
8. VASLOUCH-2 TALKED TO VALUCAS AFGEWOON12 DEC.
LATTER INSISTED SHZ RETIRY PET 1050 4S HER
EMPLOYERS VERE PROTESTING TARDY ARRIVAL.
THIS OCHOINED WITH VASLOUCH-2 FEAR THAT DOCTOR'S BAG KAS SZEN
TARDERED WITH MADE IT INPUSSIELL PERSUADS HER REMAIN EZXI LONCOR
SKI PLANS DEPART 13 DEC IF FLIGHT LEAVES. IT HOW CONFIRMED AS
DELAYED AND HAY HOT. DEPART UNTIL 14 DEC.
6. LAST FIRE STATION CONTACT WITH YACUCH-2 IS AT 1500
LOCAL 13 DECENTER. CANNOT PROMISE ANY INSTRUCTIONS OR CUIDANCE
FROM KOS VILL REACH HER VIA STATION AFTER THAT HEATR.
ITSTILL
7. RECRET THESE DEVELOPMENTS AND FACT THAT RS-48 VILL ει
PELD CIF IT STILL IN COCIOR'S CASES FOR SEVERAL VEERS, UNDER
CIRCUMSTANCES FELT THEO STATION NUCLUSE כיט מען דע PRECIPITA
ACTION CONSTITUTES UNACCEPTACLE SECURITY RISK.
18:3
SECRET
1