14-00000
104-10171-10018
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

05,08
Source: Isidoro Esquerra Fernandez A1289162
UEGA 3513/27
15 mar 62
PERS
Country Cuba
Subj (sre bolo different reports)
Removed from Project AMS PEAL
Cs Classification: 19724-
Date of Info Prior to 7 Far 62
Date plice aoq Prior to ? Hur 62 Kabana Cuba
Source descript. Cuban national who was student at the University of Habana
1. The student resistance organization in Habana is the Directorio
Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE, Student Revolutionary Directory).
-06
One of its leaders is Lester Carvin Rosales who is the chief of finance
06
for Habana Province. Man Roberto Quinteros Santiso is the general
coordinator of the DRE. He has an external line of communication,
running out of Cuba, through an official of the Uruguayan Embassy in
-06
06.
Habana. Quintaires replaced Ricario martirezzperderio, who is
208
also known as "El SIRIO Chino" (the Chinaman). The latter was
arrested by the Cuban security forces in January 1962 and is presently
in prison.
2. The DRE has a clandestine propaganda newspaper called Trinchera,
butafter it is publish on a very 1. rugular basis.

3. In order to finance its activities tho DRE sells boncs in one and
:
five peso denominations. however, because of the security conditions in
Cuba, one must be very careful in selling the bonds or else ho may sell
one to a cove nment agent who are constantly trying to provoke oppositionists
to show thensolvos.
4. During the latter part of February 1962 two bombs exploded in tho
University of Babans. It was said that the banbing was done by the
DRE.
NS XX REPORT- SAVE SUNCE

The section of babana known as Alturas del Bosque (roughly, the
Heights of the Woods) is being heavily fortified by the Cuban Government.
This area is located on the north side of 23rd Street 1111 above the 17-120-19
CS COPY
14-120-19-

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
14-00000

page 2
wostra chore of the Almendares Riv r. It is said that inmortant government
officials also live in this area. Nevertheless, Leaks this section has a commarding
viewaxaxixiun of the city of nana.

H REPORT SAME SLUN
In all my time in Habana and until 6 March 1962, the date of y
departure, I new saw more than 3 Cuban air force jets planes in the air
at one time. I have talked to my friends, partionlarly one who lives
Der un airstrip at Campo Libertad, an no one has con more than this.
number in the air at one time. This leaves us to believe that the
air forou does no biva as many fate as thya saw they have.

19-120-19