104-10100-10223
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FRANK/WICKUM:bl

INDEX
:
5661
NO INDEX
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
ROUTING
1
4
2
3
16 OCTOBER 1963  CS FILE NO 10-120-11

RIO DE JANEIRO, MEXICO CITY
16 OCT 63 22
FM: DIRECTOR
SIG CEN
CONF:
DEFERRED
ROUTINE
INFO:

100, C/CI, C/12, 0/1/4, CCC, C/WH3, RF, VR

TO PRIORITY RIOD
INFO PRIORITI MEXI
CITE DIR 6166
KEF: MEXI 6550 (IN 40823) (NOT SENTRIO)
LCHARVEST KAPOK

1. FOR PIO: SOME MEMBERS OF CHICOM DELEGATION TO THE SEVENTH CONGRESS
OF INTERNATIONAL UNION OF ARCHITECTS (UIA) HELD HAVANA 29 SEPT 3 OCT AFTERWARDS
WENT MEXI TO ATTEND UIA GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND INTERNATIONAL SYMPOSIUM ON
ARCHITECTURE. MEXI GROUP NOW SCHEDULED LEAVE MEXI 0100 HOURS 19 OCT FOR RIO.
FOLLOWING BIO DATA ON THREE MENSERS OF GROUP KNOWN TO HE MEXI:
A. YANG TING-PAO 2799 1694 1405, 201-735346; B. 20 AUG 1901, HONAN;
U.S. EDUCATED; MBR NPC; MOR ACADEMIA SINICA; VP, UIA.

B. LIANG SZU-CHENG 2733 1835 2052, 201-736781; B. 1901, TOKYO; U.S.
EDUCATED; MBR CCP; DEPUTY NPC AND CPPCC; VICE CHAIRMAN CHINA ARCHITECTURAL SOCIETY.

C. WU CHING-HSIANG 0702 2529 4382, 201-736317; B. CIRCA 1919, MANCHUPIA;
FRENCH EDUCATED; CHAIRMAN ARCHITECTURE DEPT TUNG CHI UNIV, SHANGHAI

2. DURING STAY GROUP MEXI UNILATERAL APPROACHES MADE TO YANG TING-PAO
AND LIANG SZU-CHENG FOR PURPOSES OF ASTESSMENT AND POSSIBLE DEBLIEFING,
DEFECTION OR FECHUTIMENT IN PLACE. FOLLOWING CONTACTS WITH YANG DI FORMER
PARTNER IN ARCHITECTURAL FIRM CHINA AND BY MBR U.3. FIRN YANG PREVIOUSLY
ASSOCIATED WITH, YANG ACCEPTED INTERVIEW WITH KUBARK STAFFER WHO USED COVER
CONTINUED

16074

ORIG:
UN!! :
EXT :
DATE:
YLARK/NICKING
INDEX
NO INDEX
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
ROUTING
4
5
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

FM: DIRECTOR

CONF:
DEFERRED
ROUTINE
INFO:
PAGE TWO

INFO
CITE DIR 76166
RESEARCH SCHOLAR CHINA. CONVERSATION FRIENDLY AND INCLUDED DISCUSSION MAINLAND
SITUATION. LIANG APPROACHED BY KUBARK CONTROLLED U.S. SIROLOGIST WHO WAS STUDENT
LLANG AT YALE 1947. CONTACT WITH LIANG KNOWN TO OTHER CHICOMS IN DELEGATION,
ALTHO LIANG LEFT ALONE WITH OUR MAN FOR HALF HOUR. LEANG ATTITUDE FRIENDLY BUT
SEEMED TO FOLLOW PERARRANGED LINE AND LIANG PROFESSED COMPLETE BELIEF CHINESE
CONURISH. LIANG CLADIED CONTACT BETWEEN CHINESE AND AMERICAN "FRIENDS" CONSIDERED
HIGHLY DESTRABLE BY CHINESE. CONTACTS WITH BOTH LEANG AND YANG LIMITED TO
FRIENDLY DISCUSSIONS SINCE OPERATIONAL DISCUSSION DID NOT SEEN APPROPRIATE IN
EITHER CASE.

3. MU'S HROTHER, U.S, CITIZEN, ARRIVING MEXICO 16 OCTOBER TO TALK WITH
WU AND ASK HIM IF WISHES REMAIN IN FREE WORLD.
4. REQUEST RIOD MOLITOR ACTIVITIES GROUP BRAZIL AS FEASIBLE AND ATTEMPT
DEVELOP FURTHER BIO AND ASSESSMENT DATA IF NATURAL ACCESS TO GROUP CAN BE FOUND.
DO NOT RECOMMEND FORCED APPROACH TO ANY OF GROUP, SINCE OUR COVER FOR THIS
ACTIVITY WEARING THIN AND THERE IS LONG RANGE COAL OF FUTURE FOLLOW UP THESE
CONTACTS WHEN APPROPRIATE ACCESS CAN BE ARRANGED.

CONTINUED

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

PRANK/MICKUM: bl
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
ROUTING
INDEX
SECRET
4
5
NO INDEX

FILE IN OS FLE NO
6

FROM DIRECTOR

CONF:
DEFERRED
ROUTINE
INFO:
PAGE THREE

INFO
CITE DIR
76166
5. FOR MEXI: PLS IDENTIFY OTHER MARS OF MEXI GROUP ENROUTE RIOD AND
FORWARD TO RIOD ARY ADDITIONAL INFO ON PURPOSE TRIP TO RIOD. ALSO INFORM RIOD
OF RESULTS VU MEETING WITH BROTHER.

A/DCFE(C)
END OF MESSAGE
WH/3
WH

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE GOUNG OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
