14-00000
104-10173-10104
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FILE NO.
MEXICO CITY
ASSIFIED MESSAGE
324 SECRET
PERSON UNST NOTIFIE
WH8 RID COPY
FILE VR, CT, CI/OPS, FI, SRS, CIICL, CI/OA
SECRET 071903Z
DIR ÇITE MEXI 5837
RFDCOAT LCIMPROVE LICANNY-1
KEF A HMMW 12821 AUG 64 filed 201-207137
B MEXI 5372 NOV 65
(0996300)*
729099
1. DURING ROUTINE CONTACTS WITH POSWING OFFICER DURING JAN
SURJ ADVISED HE IN CONTACT PAVEL YATSKOV (201-120123) AND VALENTIN
LOGINOV (201-285412), BOTH SUSPECT KGB. SOVS ASKED HIM PREPARE
TRAVEL INFO ON TRAINS AND SHIPS BETWEEN MEXICO, NEW YORK AND
EUROPE, LOGINOV APPEARS FRIENDLY AND TOLD SUEJ HE HOPES THEY
HL-BE- FRIENDS.
2. PRSWING OFFICER TURNED SUBJECT OVER TO S1ATION OFFICER TO WHOM
AGREED ACT-AS ACCESS AGENT LOGINOV
HIS POA.
REQUEST HOS REPROCESS
SECRET * REF., LAURICLE
CFN 5837-1 HMMW-12821 65 5372 65 PBSWING PAVEL YTASKOV 20-122123
VALENTIN LOGINOV 201-285412 KGB SOVS NEW YORK EUROPE LOGINOV
PBSWING LOGINOV HOS POA
sr
SEAREL
501285412

14-00000
DISPATCH
Chief, SRD
Chief, NID
Chief of Station, Mexico City
SECRET
SUBACY REDWOOD
XX
XX
Unidentified Visitor to the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City
ACTOR EEQUIRED REFERENCES
G ACTION
1. LICALLA and LILYRIC reported an unidentified visitor to the Soviet Embassy
in Mexico City between 29 November and 3 December 1965, The visitor appears
to be a Soviet; however, LIFIRE has not reported any inaccounted for Soviet
to have visited Mexico during this period, nor was the presence of a Soviet
visitor reported to the Station by any other source. The has not been seen
since 3 Decesber 1265.
2. According to LICALLA, the visitor was principally in contact with the
cook, Anatoliy Aleksandrovich AMUKHIN (201-295944), administrative assistant
Stanislav Sergeyevich SILNIKON (201-271103), guard Nikolay Ivanovich CAMAROW,
code clerk Aleksandr Petrovich PAVLOV (201-761265), Third Secretary and known
KGB officer Vladimir Ivanovich SHFAKEVICH (201-343894), First Secretary wid
known KGB officer Aleksandr Vladimirovich PHINHODKO (201-202379) and Press
Attache and known KGB officer Nikolay Sergeyevich LEONOV (201-132139):
:
3. According to LILYRIC, the visitor was seen leaving the Soviet Embassy
with MINIIN, and later with Third Secretary and suspect KGB officer
Valentin Sergeyevich LOGINΟΥ (201-285412) on 30 November 1965. On 1 December
he was seen leaving with MUKHIN and his wife, Commercial Counselor Georgiy
Stepanovich VISKO (201-243602) and chauffeur Anatoliy Pavlovich PRASTICHIKIN
(201-735052) in the car normally driven by Pravda correspondent Vladimir
Agafonovich DOLCOV (201-7630.35), On 2 December he was seen leaving with
MUKHIN and his wife, ZAKHARW, visitor Ferdinand Robertovich CINNO and
(continued)
Attachment
1. As Stated (HERENITH)
Distribution:
2- SRD w/att hu
1AHD w/o/att
2. File
Grey filed 50-8-10
CROSS REFERΩΝΟΣ ΤΟ
DISPATCH SYMACK AND NUMBER
HMMA-28001
CLASSE CATION
SECRET
DATE
5 January 1966
HOSPIRE M/MLER
201285412
200-4-64

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
SECRET
19MA-23001
Attache and suspect KGB officer Vladislav Sergeyevid MUSIKIN (201-744341)
in MUSKIN's car. On 3 December he was seen leaving with MAHIN and
PRASILNIKIN,
4. Attached is a photograph of the visitor taken by LILYRIC.
5. Station Mexico would appreciate it if the attached photograph could be
circulated at headquarters for possible identification.
CAT
for/Willard C. CURTIS

14-00000
CLASSIFICATION
DISPATCH
SECRET
TO
Chief of Station, Mexico City
D50
FROM
SUBJECT
Chief, SR via Chief, WH
REDWOOD
Valentin Sergeyevich LOGINOV (201-285412)
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
REFERENCE: HMMW-13985, 16 September 1965
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
XXXXX MONOCKING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESA
CAN RIDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM
Forwarded herewith is paragraph 9 (PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION
AND PHOTOS) of summary traces in SPR format on Valentin
Sergeyevich LOGINOV (201-285412) as promised to you in
the above reference.
BAG
BRUCE H. GINTALAS
ATTACHMENT:
Paragraph 9 as stated_above.
DISTRIBUTION:
Orig. & 2-Chief of Station, Mexico City (w/att)

:
CROSS REFERENCE TO
:
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
OFFICE
HMMW 1-4087
CLASSIFICATION
ESCOPZ
DATE
SECRET
GROUP 1
Excluded from "
declassification
OFFICER
207-255412
11 NOV 1965
28. October 1965
HOS FILE NUMBER
ORIGINATING
TYPIS
JOHN CARLSON
201-285412
vib
Exr.
6213
COORDINATING
OFFICER'S NAME
OFFICE SYNO
DATE
SR/O/WH 28 Oct 65 Randall 28. Lyon
AN
OM 53
ART PARVIOUS EDITION
RELEASING
LICE S
DATE
OFFICERS SIGNATURE
60
/WII/1
(3)
DICDATPU

14-00000
SECRET
9. PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION AND PHOTOS:
b. Height: 6' tall.
c.
Build: strong build; ca. 185 lbs. in Havana.
d. Hair: blond wavy hair.
8. Shape of Face: concave forehead.
:
A-1:721
DPOB:
WIFE:
290 27
201-265412
S-010107
PFT
REF:-20557 14
& &
$010107
5010107
HF-HmiN-14087
SECRET
707-255412

14-00000
۲۵
INFO
FROM
DISPATCH
SUBJECT
Chief, ku Division
Chief, SR Division
Chief of Station, Mexico City
SECRET
XXX
REDCOAT/LCIMPROVE - John STRATOS
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
PECIL PAIN ACTION
BARRIO PUUR INEERING
NO NENG CO
OMY CULFND DES
CAN FUDGE ENDOLING
MICROFLB
1. LICOZY/5 reported that on 12 October 1965 Subject visited
his place of business and said that he had been referred to LICOZY/S
by the Soviet Embassy. He said he was intorested in a one-way ticket
to the Soviet Union. Subject furnished the following information
to LICOZY/5 : Ho was born on 19 August 1942 in Michigan. He is
a student at U.C.L.A. and wanted to visit the USSR as a tourist.
Subject held U. S. passport number C 530394 issued 29 August 1962.
His permanent address was given as 19222 Pacific Coast liighway....
Malibu, California. His tourist card showed that he entered Mexico
by bus at Soncita, Sonora on 9 October 1965. Subject paid for 15
days in the Soviet Union but said that he planned to stay longer.
2. He ift Mexico via Air France flight 702 on 16 October
(confirmed by flight manifests). His plans call for him to depart
Paris for Moscow via Air France flight 724 on 17 October.
3. During a routine visit to the Consular Section of the Soviet
Embassy, Valentin S. LOGINOV thanked LICOZY/5 for "taking care"
of Subject but, in the presence of both PRIKHODKO and Consular
officer Vladimir S. KORMUSHKIN, LOGINOV admonished LICOZY/S for asking
for more biographic-data than he needed to fill out the necesзагу
papers. LICOZY/5 denied that he had asked for more information than
ho needed. (Subject apparently reported LicoZY/S's actions in
obtaining the above biographic data (or was debriefed by LOGINOV,
a suspect KGB officer).
4. It seems unusual for an American student to travel from the
U. S. to Mexico in order to travel to the Soviet Union since ho is
automatically increasing the cost of his travel by a considerable
amount. Since Subject crossed into Mexico on 9 October, only a
week before his departure for the USSR, it would appear that he
came to Mexico exclusively for this purpose. It thus appears that
the purpose of travelling via Mexico was to conceal this trip from
the U. S. authorities.
Local ODENVY not advisor
for
Willard C. CURTIS
Distribution:
CH
CS CUP FILED IN 506-11/9
ESR
CHOS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL ANL) NUMBEN
DATE
HMMA - 27467
GROUP 1
Ercticas from actsmatte
bangtacing and
Erlinssificaties
CLASSICATION-
SECRET
20 OCTOBER 1965
2015120301215712
FFN: P-2712

14-00000
INFO
FROM
DISPATCH
SUBJECT
Chief, SR
Chief, WH
Chief of Station, Mexico City
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
REDWOOD - Valentin Sergeyevich LOGINOV (201-285412)
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCE
XX
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESA
CAN MIDIGE INDEXING
MICROFILM
LIFIRE reported the arrival on 10 October 1965, via Sabena flight 555,
of Subject's wife, Aleksandra Dmitriyevna, and his son Dmitriy. Travelling
on the same flight were Boris Aleksandrovich KAZANTSEV (201-028975) and nis
LHMMA 27425
wife returning to Mexico from home leave,
DISTRIBUTION:
2-C/SR
1-C/WH
SR
for/Willard C. CURTIS
CS COPY
DATE
201-285412.
CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
ΗΜΜΑ-27420
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
14 October 1965
HOSERE SABER
201-235412

14-00000
TO
INFO
FROM
DISPATCH
SUBJECT
Chief of Station, Mexico City
CLASSIFICATIW
SECRET
Chief, SR via Chief, ill
SUBJECT RED WOOD
Valentin Sergeyevich LOGINOV (201 285412)
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
REFERENCE: MEXI 4363, 7 August 1969.
XXX
PROCESSING ACTION
MAPKES FLA
CONG ON
ORTED DESA
CAR MODE ENOU
MICROFR
1. Forwarded herewith are summary traces in SPR format on
Valentin Sergeyevich LOCINOV, reflecting a digest of available
information in Headquarters files,
2. Paragraph 9 of the above attachment (PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION
AND PHOTOS) will be forwarded to you at a later date under separate
dispatch as soon as the photos have been processed here at Headquarters.
3. Forwarded under separate cover is Paragraph 21 (IDENTITIES).
BNG
BRUCE H. GINTALAS
ATTACHMENTS: A. Summary traces in SPR format (h/w)
B.. Paragraph 21 (IDENTITIES) (u/s/c)
DISTRIBUTION:
Orig. & 2-Chief of Station, Mexico City (w/att A, h/w; w/att B, u/s/c)
201-285912
CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
CS COPY
DATE
GROUP 1
HMMW 13935
CLASSIFICd from automat
SECRET
dawegracing and
declassification
23SEP 1965
16 September 1965
HOS FILE NUMBER
201 285412
OF FILE
SR/O/PA
OFFICE SEVE
1-FD(w/att A & B)
1-$R/O/WH (w/att. A & B)
1-
SR/O/WH
W/1
ABOLCS
PILER
ORIGINATING
PIST
vjb
JOHN CARLSON
COORDINATING
DATE
OFFNER'S NAME
20 Sits end you
7/21
RELEAS
LATE
C/WH/1
Ext
6213

14-00000
A
ATTACHMENT GOES TO h13985
SUMMARY TRACES IN SPR FORMAT
SECRET
1. NAME: Valentin Sergeyevich LOGINOV
3
7
2. DPOB: 23 December 1927, Moscow
:
A NUMBER
:
PREPARED BY. BRUCE H. GINTALAS
DATE
8 September 1965
201 NUMBER
201 285412
18721
3. CITIZENSHIP AND PASSPORT DATA:
a. USSR citizen.
b. Passport DO16993, issued 24 August 1960.
c. Passport DO10264, issued 1965
6. CURRENT POSITION:
F
Third Secretary, Soviet Embassy, Mexico City.
7. RELATIVES:
C.
Spouse:
Aleksandra Dmitriyevna, born 20 August 1928, Moscow.
Worked in the Consular Office in Havana. Speaks
poor Spanish.
d. Children: Son Dmitriy Valentinovich, born 1959.
Daughter
7
r
Irina Valentinovna, born ca. 1952.
8. LANGUAGES:
1
Subject speaks fluent Spanish with a slight accent.
Subject spoke some English while he was in Havana.
1-
cett. "i- Hmmu-13985 s
THOA ST
SECRET
F
RIS INPUT NO. T
207-285412
-

14-00000
SECRET
11. CURRICULUM VITAE:
A February 1960 Diplomatic List from Argentina lists Subject as
a new Soviet Military Attache due to arrive in Buenos Aires in the near.
future. There is no indication that Subject ever filled that post.
From September 1960 to September 1963, Subject and family were
in Havana where Subject served as an Attache at the Soviet Embassy. In
December 1961, he accompanied the Soviet DYNAMO soccer team on a Latin
American tour as their escort and interpreter.
;
Subject arrived in Mexico City on 3 August 1965 to replace known
KGB officer Oleg Maksimovich NECHIPORENKO (201 305870), as a Third
Secretary.
12. INTELLIGENCE AFFILIATION:
Subject is listed as probable RIS, probably KGB.on the basis of
:
۱۰
his activities while stationed in Havana and by virtue of his replacing
a known KGB officer in Mexico City. Per HMMA-28390, 3mai
considered Known KGB.
13. INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITY:
:
66 Subject
While Subject accompanied the DYNAMO soccer team through, La Paz
in December 1961, he became acquainted with KISHIN-1 (Identity 1), a
KUBARK Bolivian security service penetration and later a low level
Bolivian university-cell CP penetration. It is not recorded upon whose
initiative the contacts were made. However, by KISHIN-1's admission
he had several informal and friendly meetings with Subject during which
Subject encouraged KISHIN-1 to accept a Cuban student grant. In fact he
specifically expressed an eagerness to be of any assistance in helping
KISHIN-1 to get to. Cuba. KISHIN-1 never went to Cuba, although he did
SECRET

14-00000
SECRET
13. (CONTINUED)
correspond with Subject on the matter on at least one occasion. KISHIN-1
was terminated as an agent in July 1963 for security reasons and because
it was believed that he was a fabricator. No further developments in
his association with Subject were noted.
t
ال
?
On the same trip through Latin America in December 1961, Subject
২১
was observed to have in his possussion some $2,000 in United States
currency. After sending the soccer team back to Moscow from Quito,
Subject continued alone through Panama City, where he was seen in contact
with a Mexican citizen with whom he flew on to Mexico City. In Mexico
City Subject reported to known KGB officer Aleksey Ivanovich GARMASHOV
(201 227418) at the Soviet Embassy. From a sensitive source it was
learned that GARMASHOV had been instructed to look into the matter of
Subject's four-day delay in returning to Havana from Quito and that
Subject's superiors in Havana were concerned. It is not known what
relationship, if any, these circumstances have to each other.
1
In Havana carly in 1963, Subject befriended and apparently attempted
to cultivate VASLOUCHS 1, 2, and 3 (Identities 2, 3, and 4). The
association was discouraged by KUBARK because VASLOUCH-1 and 2 were
performing important functions in connection with Cuban FI activities and
contact with a possible RIS officer was not thought desireable.
In September 1962 at the invitation of Senhor Vazco Leitão de CUNHA,
Brazilian Ambassador to Cuba and newly appointed Ambassador to the Soviet
Union, VASLOUCH-3 traveled to Moscow and accepted a clerical position
at the Brazilian Embassy where she remained for approximately two years. A
year later, in September 1963, Subject returned PCS to Moscow. Between
December 1963 and February 1964, Subject made three attempts to see
VASLOUCH-3. According to VASLOUCH-3, the contacts were by telephone only
SECRET

14-00000
SECRET
13. (CONTINUED)
and she did not meet with Subject personally while in Moscow.
15. CONTACTS:
In December 1961 in La Paz, Bolivia, Subject was in contact with
KISHIN-1. See paragraph 13 above and Identities.
Subject was in contact in Panama City and on a flight from Panama
City to Mexico City in December 1961 with Edmundo Fausto ZORRILLA
Martinez, a Mexican citizen who had been traveling around Latin America.
The nature of this contact has not been determined.
Subject befriended and apparently attempted to develop in Havana
VASLOUCHS 1, 2, and 3. See paragraph 13 above and Identities.
20. TRACES FOR LIAISON:
See first page following.
21. IDENTITIES:
See second page following..
SECRET

14-00000
SECRET
Valentin Sergeyevich LOGINOV
7
DPOB: 23 December 1927, Moscow
{
I
PASSPORTS: DO16993, issued 24 Augúst 1960
D010264, issued 1965
POSITION: Third Secretary, Soviet Embassy, Mexico City.
٤٠٠
ふ
WIFE: Aleksandra Dmitriyèvna, born 20 August 1928, Moscow. Worked
in the Consular Office of the Soviet Embassy in, Havana.
Speaks poor Spanish.
SON: Dmitriy Valentinovich, born 1959.
DAUGHTER: Irina Valentinovna, born ca. 1952.
LANGUAGES: Subject speaks fluent Spanish and poor English.
PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION: He is 6 tall, weighs 185 lbs., has a strong
build, blond, wavy hair, and a concave forehead.
TRAVEL: In 1960 Subject was designated to the Soviet Embassy in
Argentina as a Military Attache, however, there is no
record that Subject ever filled that post.
Z
From, September 1960 to September 1963, Subject and family
were in Havana 'where Subject, served as an Attache at the
Soviet Embassy. In December 1961 he accompanied the
Soviet DYNAMO Soccer team on a Latin American tour as
their escort and interpreter.
SECRET

14-00000
UNDER SEPARATE CONC
ATTACI МОМІ В ГО
HMM 39SS
SECREЕГ
$
1
IDENTITIES *
3
1
IDENTITY ONE
DELGADILLO Menache, Adalid, formerly a Captain on
the Bolivian Police Force. KUBARK agent from 1960
to 1963.
IDENTIFY TWO
MATIKAINEN, Laurı Olavi, llonorary Finnish Counsel
IDENTITY THREE
IDENTITY FOUR
in Havana and KUBARK contact since 1962.
ΜΑΤΙΚΑΙΝΕΝ, Estrella, wife of IDENTITY TWO.
ΜΑΤΙΚΑΙΝΕΝ, Anneli, daughter of IDENTITIES TWO and
THREE.
?
7
}
र
SECRET

14-00000
TO
INFO
FROM
DISPATCH
Chief, SR Division
-Chief, WH Division
SUBJECT
t
Chief of Station, Mexico City
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
6. REDWOOD Valentin Sergeyevich LOGINOV (201-285412)
ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES
REFERENCE: MEXI 4363,6 August 1965
OSR
PROCESSING ACTION
XXXX
MARKEN FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM
Subject's arrival in Mexico was reported in Reference. Attached are
copies of Subject's passport, obtained through LITEMPO, no. D-010264, Issued
24 June 1965. in. Moscow and valid for five years.
Attachment:
Copies of Passport
Distribution:
2 CSR, w/att., as stated, H/W
1 - CWH, w/o att.
Art
CROSS REFERENCE TO
CS COPY
-for
Willard C. CURTIS
GROUP 1
Exceeded frors פירסינן
おこたい、こ
de list irade
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
DATE
12 AUGUST 1965
HQS FILE NUMBER
201-285412
FFN P-11712

14-00000
UNION
DES FEINRIQUES
SOVIÉTIQCES SOCIALUSTES
PASSEPORT
DIPLOMATIQUE
СОЮЗ СОВЕТСКИХ
СОЦИАЛИСТИЧЕСКИХ
РЕСПУБЛИК
Хотинов Валентин Copreend
против Секретарь Посольства СССР, в Моск
:
1010264
ПАСПОРТ

14-00000
Le fal
es
N.
10
19
be dial de trent prepart and prolonge
w
"
.
Altaistre du prinesl
BOEPUBLIQUES SOVIETIQ
DBS
Valentin LOU
Provedeno Secrétaire
exique,
ΔΟΝΣΠ
de 14
Moes
ILOMATICКАЯ ВОКЗА
40575
09.
ДЕЙСТВИТЕЛЬНА COOP
18020
55
AB ROM
δες πέρυσιους Βong
Lottie Gaskets
allures de ruaza
www

14-00000
0
BELOMATICA
VALIDA por
Dotard utlizarse sta
del dia:
Based,
JADA DE METURE
حد
MOSCU.
URS
Mong
14.10.4563 VILT 1965
28-
ta

14-00000
INDESTOVES,
CLASSIFY TO FA2010 285412 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
XINEF TO FILE NO.
FILE RIDO RET..
CESTROY
24 SECRET
SIG.
Jelm PCarlsoporto
SON/UNIT NOTIFIED
ACTION
TOTAL COPIES
GROUP
REPRODUCTION-PROHIBITED
SR/O/PA
UNIT
BY
Mexico Cirt
5,0-8
ADVANCE COPY
RID COPY
FILE, F, WH-8, CI, CI/OPS, FI, FI/INTO WH/C-8
ANFL
ABSTRACT
INDEX
SECRET 507081eZ
DIR CITE MEXI 4363.
-REDWOOD
7 Auc 55 27561
1. LIFIRE REPORTS ARRIVAL. 3 AUG VIA SABENA FLIGHT 555 OF
VALENTIN LOGINOV, AGE 38 PPT D-012264, NEW THIRD SECRETARY
SOVIET EMB MEXICO..
2. PRE SUMABLY IDEN VALENTIN SERGEYEVICH LOGINOV
201-285412. REQUEST SUMMARY TRACES.
3. BELIEVED REPLACING NECHIPORENKO 221-305870.
SECRET
CFN. 4363 3 AUG VIA SABENA 555 VALENTIN LOGINOV 38. PPT
DE10264 IMI D-010254 SOVIET EMB MEXICO IDEN VALENTIN
SERGEYEVICH LOGINOV 201-285412 NECHIPORENKO 201-325870
BT
SECRET
201-285712
7A4665
201-285412
selak

14-00000
シ
4
2
2
JATE
10
FLISADER GRTSEO/Pig
WIL C/FL/10
6172
29 MARCH 1965
RIO DE JANEIRO
FROM DIRECTOR
CON wafe
NNC INC
MESSAGE FORM
INCHLE NO
SECRET
25-6-33
INFO: JLEAVE
71465
INFO FIE LE
to
RIOD
INFO
WAVE
CITE DIR
95920
Y
TYPIC VASLOUCH
P109
REF WAVE 7701 (IN 30193)
1. SUBJ REF (IDEN A) IS VASLOUCH-3, DAUGHTER-V--(FDEN-B) AND...
V-2, (IDEN C). V-1 AND V-2 CURRENTLY RESIDE PORUMEN AND HAVE BEEN
HQS REPORTING ASSETS SINCE FEB 63.
WAS
2. V-2 WORKED APPROX 12 YEARS BRAZILIAN EMBASSY PERUMEN.
QUITE CLOSE TO ALSUPER AND FAMILY WHEN HE HAD END THERE AND TOURED
FJSTEAL WITH HIM FOR MONTH IN 63. V-3: CLOSE FRIEND ALSUPER DAUGHTER.
LOGINOV
3. EARLY 63 LOCAL SOV KGB TYPE WHO HAD PREVIOUS-DUSTESS CONTACTS
WITH V-2 MADE SOCIAL CONTACT WITH V-1 AND V-2 IN RELATIVELY CLUMSY
EFFORT DEVELOP THEM. V-1 AND V-2 WERE INSTRUCTED BY IQS TO AVOID
FURTHER CONTACT. KGB OFFICER RETURNED PCS MOSCOW LATE AUG 63. BETWEEN
DEC 63 AND FEB 64 HE MADE THREE MILD ATTEMPTS CONTACT V-3 IN MOSCOW
EFFORT CONTACT VASLOUCHES APPARENTLY - DROPPED WITH NO FURTHER
DEVELOPMENT. HOS HAS NO ADDITIONAL INFO TO CONFIRM OR DISPELL
ALSURAHS SUSPICIONS V-3 SOVIET PENETRATION
t
4. V-3 HAS BEEN SOMEWHAT WORRY TO PARENTS AND HOS THROUGHOUT
OUR ASSOCIATION. PARENTS DESIRE SEE V-3 LOCATED SAFELY SOME WESTERN
CITY WITH GOOD JOB AND SECURE INCOME MATCHES HOS WISH ELIMINATE HER
ASLEADING OFFICER
COGROINATING OFFICER
SECRET
. CATING
27-30
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
Spy lio
504285712
5
4
1

14-00000
ORIG
UNIT
EXT
DATE,
TO
MESSAGE FORM
SECRET
INDEX
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.
FROM DIRECTOR
PAGE TWO
CON
INFO
ROUTING
3
2
3
-7
4.
3
INFO
AS SOURCE CONCERN HER PARENTS.
CITE DIR
96720
5. REQUEST STA TAKE NO ACTION THIS MATTER AT THIS TIME. HQS
CONCERN PRIMARILY THAT WORRY ABOUT V-3 NOT BE ALLOWED JEOPARDIZE
FUNCTIONING V-1 AND V-2. V-3 MAY EVEN AGREE SOME FUTURE DATE ACT AS
SW LINK BETWEEN V-1 AND HQS IF SUCH CHANNEL EVER NEEDED.
END OF MESSAGE
C/WH/C/FI
2
DES
WH/5 Larry Sulk (by phone)
FITZGERALD
C/WH
C/WH/C/MO Walter Cini (an draft)
SH/CI/KOB Tom Ryan (by phone)
JOHYL. HART
2
DCWHD/C
1
#BLEAUGE OFFICER
SOOBRIHATING SPFIGERS
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
ユジでなすす
OFFICER

14-00000
i
OG.
UNIT.
1
DATE.
ELISABETH GRISSO/Pig
WH/C/FI/IO
617.2
ONDD
NO INDEX
MESSAGE FORM 14
BECRET
29 MARCH 1965 FIRE IN CS FILE NO. 28-6-33
2
3
ROUTING
5
7
TO
RIO DE JANEIRO
INFO: JMWAVE
29 MAR 65
FROM DIRECTOR
224624
COND, WHIC 8
DOO FILE, UR, DDP; WHT SR.7, Cilon, Cilops, cillez
TO
Y
RIOD
NO WAVE
CITE DIR
TYPIC: VASLOUCH
96921
REF DIR
96920
IDEN A: ANNELI MATΙΚΑΪΝΕΝ
FORMER SECRETARY IN BRAZILIAN EMBS
0
HAVA AND MOSCOW. (IN MOSCOW SEPT 62
IDEN B: LAURI MATIKΑΙΝΕΝ
FINNISH BUSINESSMAN
HON, FINNISH CONSUL
IN HAVANA
IDEN C. ESTRELLA TOINI MATΙΚΑΙΝΕΝ
FORMER SECRETARY IN
BRAZILIAN EMB HAVA
END OF MESSAGE
SEPT 64)
2
1
C/WH/C/FI
C/WH/C/MO Walter Cini (in draft) f
DESMOND FITZGERALD WH/5 Larry Sulk (by phone) 15. JOHN L/ HART
C/WH
DOLBARING OFFICE
DCWHDAC
SR/CI/KGB Ton Ryan (by phone) gg.
9-29
GOORPINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
اليمن
pr treatcom
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
ΑΝΤHENTICATING
APFIGED
Copy Ne

14-00000
LASSIFIED MESSAGE,
TOTAL COPIES
9
SECRET
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
FROM
ACTION
INF
Rio de JANEIRO
WH-8
PERSON/UNIT NOT 9.53 AM 65
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
UNIT
TIME
VR. FILE, DDP WH/C-8. CE, CI/OPS, FI, SR-7
SECRET2419022
DIR INFO WAVE CITE RIOD 7701
REF HORA 11170 25 JUNE 1953 100. SENT WAVED
1. ON 23 MARCH MERVEDES MAGALHAES LIRIO, PERSONAL.
SECRETARY ALSUPER 2, INTRODUCED MYLKES TO ANNELI MATIKAINEN,
WHO VISITING RIO FOR APPROXIMATELY ONE MONTH MΑΤΙΚΑΪΝΕN
SAID ALTHOUGH HER FUTURE PLANS INDEFINITE, SHE HAD NO INTEΝΤΙΟΝ
RETURNING PORUMEN, WHERE HER PARENTS ASSIGNED. SAID SHE MIGNT
ACCERT EMPLOYMENT IN NEW YORK CITY OR WOULD RETURN TO EUROPE.
HOWEVER, LIRIO IS ATTEMPTING TO INTEREST MATIKAINEN IN REMAIN-
ING RIO AND ASKED MYLKES IF MATIKAINEN DID STAY COULD HE DIREC
HER TO SOME AMERICAN COMPANY OR U.S. GOVERNMENT AGENCY FOR
EMPLOYE MYLKES LEFT MATTER OPEN SAYING HE WOULD HAVE O
HAVE MORE INFO ON MATIKAINEN'S QUALIFICATIONS.
MENT.
2. ONLY INFO RIO STA SE MATIKAINEN CONIAINED
IN REF SUPPLIED BY ALSURAH, WHO NOW ON TWO YEAR LEAVE FROM
HIS SERVICE AND ONLY IN RIO ON INFREQUENT