14-00000
104-10106-10300
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

Yurily Ivanovich NOSENKO

IDENTIFICATION:
NOSENKO, Yurily Ivanovich, a Soviet
KGB officer who defected in 1964 and
was subsequently involuntarily con-
fined in the U.S. by the Agency for
a period of approximately three years.

BACKGROUND :
NOSENKO first contacted Agency per-
sonnel in Switzerland in June 1962
and subsequently defected in January
1964. NOSENKO was brought to the U.S.
and after a period of relative freedom
he was involuntarily confined in
April 1964. From April 1964 to
August 1965, he was confined at an
Agency controlled site in Clinton,
Maryland. From August 1965 to
October 1967, NOSENKO was confined
at Camp Peary Virginia. In October
1967, he was returned to the Washington
area, given increasing amounts of
freedom until he was given total free-
dom in April 1969. NOSENKO became a
U.S. citizen in April 1974. NOSENKO
was employed by the Agency as a
consultant in March 1969 and continues
under contract to date. His present
salary is $23,500 per year.

APPROVAL :
(1) The legal basis to confine NOSENKO
against his will was discussed by
Mr. Richard Helms, DD/P, and others with
the Deputy Attorney General on 2 April
1964 (Tab 1). On 3 April 1964, the
Agency General Counsel, Mr. Lawrence
Houston, advised the Director of Security
by memorandum that such confinement was
proper (Tab 2).

(2) There are a series of letters from
the DDCI, DCI and others to various
agencies, including the Department of
Justice and the White House, covering
the period 1964 to 1969, evidencing
awareness of these agencies of the
NOSENKO affair (Tab 3).

(3) The conditions of NOSENKO's confine-
ment were established by the Office of
Security (Tabs 4 & 5).

14-00000

RESULTS :
By memorandum dated 2 October 1968,
the Director of Security forwarded
two reports to the DDCI summarizing.
the results of the NOSENKO case to
that date. The reports are voluminous.
One was prepared by the Office of
Security and the other by the FBI.
Both reports conclude that NOSENKO
was a bona fide defector. A draft
memorandum attached to this file,
dated 21 October 1968 and prepared
by the CI Staff, raises question
regarding NOSENKO's bona fides
and challenges the above two reports.

TERMINATION :
NOSENKO Continues under contract to
the Agency. He is brought to Washington,
periodically to consult on matters
germane to his background and experience.
Various reports are available in the
files of the Office of Security which
detail financial aspects of this case.
No final accounting has been made since
the project continues.

COMMENTS :
(1) While the Office of Security files
do document the rationale for the original
confinement of NOSENKO, they do not
document the rationale for his continued
confinement over so long a period of time.
A memorandum dated 5 August 1969 states
that various congressional staff officers
were briefed on NOSENKO and states that
concern for his safety, as well as con-
cern regarding his bona fides, prompted
the prolonged confinement. (See Tab 6)

(2) Office of Security files document
a period in 1969 during which a mail
cover was placed on NOSENKO.

(3) During the above period, NOSENKO
was allowed a pleasure trip to Florida.
During this trip, Agency personnel, with
apparent Headquarters approval, obtained
the services of prostitutes. This
apparently occurred on at least two
occasions.

2

14-00000
FILES :
(C
Office of Security files on NOSENKO
are maintained in the following
locations:

OS/SSD (Contact Mr. Charles Phalen)

OS/SAG (Contact Mr. Bruce Solie)

3

14-00000
OLDIET
EVER PILY
2. April 1964
:
MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

SUSJECT:
Discussion. with Deputy Attorney
General on Nosenko Case

I. Ar Helas, Mr. Houston and Mr. Murphy met with
the Deputy Attorney General and members of his staff to
discuss subject case. Present from Hr. Katzenbach's--
staff were Messrs. Foley, Yeagley and Reis.

2. Mr. Helas explained the Nosenko case briefly
and indicated that shortly we would be faced with what
we at least considered to be two problems on which we
would like the advice of the Department of Justice.
First, we would seeon feel compelled to begin hostile
interrogation of Hosenko in order to arrive at the truth
with respect to his mission for the KGB and we wondered
what the legal position would be in circumstances in
which we detained Nosenko against his will for this pur-
pose. Second, we would have to be ready after determin-
ing that we could obtain no additional information from
Nosenko to deport him. We had thought of taking him to
Germany and transferring him to Soviat custody in Borlin
where this has been done a number of times in the past.
:
3. There was some discussion of whether deportation
to another country might be a consideration. Mr. Halms
explained we would probably face publicity problems in
deporting to a third country of the kind we would en-
counter if he were free in the U. S. Nr. Helms noted
there were many items of information which we and the
FBI realize are of no significance because of the file
holdings we have but which an unscrupulous newspaper man
could use to create mischief. This aspect was then dropped
and it was the consensus that Berlin was probably the best
place.

4. The question of the basis for detention was again
raised and related by Mr. Foley to the conditions under
which Nosenko is in this country. He is hore as an "ex-
clusion and parole case" which means he has not been
admitted and has been paroled to the Agency which is
responsible for him while he is in this country. This
erenrt
EYES ONLY

14-00000
EYES CV
2-
-:
parole can be interpreted to mean parole to a specific
locale which would provide some justification for our
detaining him for questioning. It was then pointed out,
however, that if he said he wished to leave the country
to return to the Soviet Union, technically we would not
be able to detain him further. In this event, we would
be faced with the need to deport his quickly and quietly
and for this purpose the immigration warrant of arrest.
and deportation was was probably the best instrument.

5. Mr. Katzenbach asked Mr. Foley to check into
this and Hr. Foley will in turn contact Mr. Houston.
Mr. Houston will in turn discuss the problem with CIA
Office of Security officials to get the background-of
their liaison with the INS on these matters.

6. Mr. Helas thanked. Mr. Katzenbach for his assistance
and wo departed amid some jovial banter with respect to
"The Spy Who Came in From the Cold" about what we expected
to happen to him when he started to climb over that "wall"
in Berlin.

David E. Murphy
Chief, SR Division
S GALY

14-00000
C/SB
KOLO
OGC 64-0903
MEMORANDUM FOR: : Director of Security
SUBJECT:
3 April 1964
Parole Status of Defectors
:
1. On 2 April 1964 we had a discussion with the Department
of Justice or the status of aliens whose inspection by I&NS is deferred
upon arrival at our request and who are then paroled to this Agency.
It was the position of the Department of Justice that we were responsible
for taking any action necessary to carry out the terms of the parole.

2. As you know, a basic parole agreement was executed by the
Attorney General and the DCI on 10 February 1955. After setting up
conditions for authorizing parole in any one case, the agreement states:
"After parole of such aliens, the Central Intelligence Agency will assume
responsibility for care, supervision and control of a kind and degree it
believes consistent with the internal security needs of the United States
during continuance of their parole status." This means that the
responsible Agency officials must take the minimum action necessary
to protect the internal security needs of the United States. The word
"minimum" is not necessarily a limitation. It merely means that good
judgment must be used as to what kind and degree of action is necessary.

3. The agreement further provides that upon completion of the
parolee's intelligence or operational purposes in the United States or if
internal security reasons so require, the alien will be removed from
this country through arrangements made by the Agency and, in such
case, the Agency will inform the Service in advance of each proposed
departure.
para 1 declassifie Kawrence Ritterstow
by AAL on
CC:DD/P
C/SR
19 Sept 78
چین
LAWRENCE R. HOUSTON
General Counsel

14-00000
(January 1975
SUBJECT: Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO
1. Information that NOSENKO had defected and was in the United
States in February 1964 was known to appropriate agencies and articles
had appeared in the public media.

2. NOSENKO was in the United States under an I&NS parole as
the responsibility of CIA. The FBI was fully advised of the presence of
NOSENKO in the United States and interviewed NOSENKO on several
occasions in March 1964. The United States Intelligence Board was
also formally advised on 12 February 1964 concerning the defection of
NOSENKO. On 14 February 1964, NOSENKO was interviewed by Soviet
in the presence of I&NS and State Department officials
officials/and NOSENKO reaffirmed his previous request for asylum in
the United States.

14-00000
9 OCT 1969
ER-69-5003/1
:
Mr. Raymond F Farrell
Commissioner of Immigration
and Naturalization
Department of Justice
Washington, DC
Dear Mr. Farrell:
SUBJECT: Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO
Pursuant to the authority granted under Section 7 of
the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949, as amended,
I approve and recommend for your approval the entrance
of subject into the United States for permanent residence
since his entry is in the interest of the national security
and assential to the furtherance of the national intelligence
mission. In accordance with previous correspondence in
Section 7 cases, it is understood that you will present this
matter to the Attorney General for his approval.

Since his defection in February 1964, the subject bas
provided valuable information to this Agency and he will
continue to be of value in the future.

Subject has been investigated abroad and here over a
period of five years and has submitted to a technical inter-
rogation. The question of bona fides is a continuing one and
should any information be developed definitely disproving his
bona fides, it shall be made available to your Service and the
Attorney Genaral.
SCOTILI
6300 1
Sxcluded iam auzastic
Gungrading and
declaaslitale

14-00000
Thars are enclosed Forces -125 and background chic,
in suplicate, concerning the subject
incerely,
[s]
Richard Haims
Director
ORIGINA
/s/ H. J. Osborn
8 October 1969
Howard J.. Osors
Dato
Director of Sochrity
Distributions Orig
Signer's copy
DECI
Z
33 Div.
200
03 Filen
SECRET

14-00000
Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO (Aka: Yuri NOSSENKO)
Nicolayev, Ukraine, USSR
Brown Blue/Gray 5ít. 11 inches
:
30 October 1927
Male
Soviet
Divorced
Caucasian

14-00000
BIGORAPHIC DATA
Yaziy Iran
14 October 1927, Zicolayev, Ukrabe, USSA
MARIZAL SZATUSI 1946 - Marriad and divorced Flavia
Float TELE), 1949-arald and
23
1955 - Married Ludmila Faltanovan
KOERETNIKOVA), Jaana
Chata NOSENSO, b
1959; Tamara MOLENKO, bera
13 July 1958, Moscow Poth Uving is 1370)
1942-1945 - Attesdod various USIR Naval
Sensela
PMATIONALITZI
Plavai Intelligente)
The Carminer for Stata Secarity):
Lieutenses in 3358 Hary whis in school an
Zovies
PRESENT AND FAST 1943-1954 - miez Soms333
POLITICAL AFF
LATIORS
:
- Candidata Communist Party
1957-1965 - ander bezmist Party, ISSR
62009 1
Scaled tha
cong ta
dacacsitification

14-00000
SEONET
C
SP-1687
18 JUL 1969
Mr. Raymond F. Farrell
Commissioner of Immigration
and Naturalization
Department of Justice
DC
Washington, D
Attention: Mr. Frank E. Bartos
Dear Sir:
SUBJECT: Yuriy Ivanovich NOSSENKO
Reference is made to previous correspondence
in this case

Subject continues to be of operational interest
to this Agency. Therefore, it is requested subject's:
parole to this Agency be extended for an additional
period of six (6) months beyond the expiration date of
his stay of 16 August 1969.

Your cooperation in this matter is very much ap-
preciated.

Sincerely,
STCHED
Victor R. White
Deputy Director of Security
(Investigations and Operational Support)
OS/AAS/LW:es 16 July 1969
NOT TO BE DISSEMINATED FURTHER OR EXHIBITED
TO ANYONE WITHOUT PRIOR PERMISSION OF THE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.
SEPOST
GROUP 1
Excluded ב הרהstematic
dexagrading and
declassificati

14-00000
SUBJECT (Optional)
ROUTING AND RECORD SHET
FROM
Chief, SR. Division
TOOficer designation room number, and
building).
12:
13
14.
15.
DD/OS
FORM
3-62-
610
USE PREVIOUS.
EDITIONS
SECRET
EXTENSION NO.
DATE
577713 February-1964
DATE
OFFICER'S
INITIALS
RECEIVED FORWARDED
COMMENTS (Number-each each comment los
to whom Draw aslins across column after eacht comm
10 show from
TOP SECRET-EYES ONLY
BY HAND
EYES ONLY
CONFIDENTIAL.
:-
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED

14-00000
MEMORANDUM FOR:
TOP SEORET
EYES ONLY
11 February 1954
Mr. McGeorge Sundy
:
SUBJECT:
Yuri Ivanovich NOSENKO

1. This saorandia.refers to the State Department
release of 10 February.on subject case and provides addi-
tional background as ound as well as information en his current
status........

2. As a 163 staff officer, NOSENKO is regularly
assigned to the Counterintelligance Directorate of the
XGB in Hoscow but was included in the Soviet delegationA
to the Disarmament Conference as part of a cover arrange-
went which permitted his to carry out intelligence and Y
security functions in Geneva on behalf of the ECB
..
:
3. HOSENKO also attended various sessions of the
Disarmament Conference hold in Genova in 1962. During
the course of these sessions NOSENKO sought contact with
officials of the U. S. Government, informed these officials
that he was affiliated with the Soviet State Security ap-
paratus and volunteered to aid the U. S. Government in
datecting Soviet subversive activity directed against the
U, S. Government. During the course of his contact with
U. S. authorities NOSENKO stated that bis cooperation with.
the U. S. Government originated with his distaste and hatred
for the Soviet regime in general, with his desire to obtain
revenge for the unjust death of his father, a senior official
in the Soviet shipbuilding industry, and with the general
admiration of the Azericans with whom he had come in con-
tact within the Soviet Union.

4. In lato January 1964, NOSENKO arrived in Geneva,
again masquerading as a member of the Soviet delegation
to the Disaranment Conference. Subject secretly notified
his CIA contacts in the United States concerning his pres-
ence in Geneva and arranged to meet with these contacts..
During a series of sootings NOSENKO provided information
including documents concerning Soviet Stato Security acti-
vities within the USSR SR and abroad and a detailed account
of the XC3 operation against U. S. Professor Barghoora
which NOSENKO said he had personally supervised at the
direction of SEMICHASTNIY, the Chairman of the Committee
for State Security (KG3).
EVES DALY

14-00000
EYES ONLY C
3-
5. During these most recent meetings NOSENKO announced
his desire to leave the USSR permanently and seek his future
in the West. lis claimed his new work in the KGB (First
Deputy Chief of that department charged with the surveillance
and recruitment of American visitors to the USSR) was o...
panding and that he would not do able to visit the West:
with any frequency.. Accordingly, he prepared a request for
political asylus in the United States. He was taken to
Frankfurt, Germany where he is currently undergoing interro-
gation. Plans are now being made to remove his to the U.S.

6. It should be noted that CIA contact with Subject.
has not been extensive and that we will require additional
thorough interrogation to establish Subject's boaa fides..
It should also be noted that MOSENXO's duties were not con-
cerned with sub substantive aspects of the Disarmament Conference,
and he therefore is not expected to be able to shed much, if
any, light on that area of our interest.

7. The possibility that NOSENKO's defection was de-
signed to wrock the conference was most carefully considered.
The decision to accept hia was taken on the conviction that
the Soviets would not have chosea such a vulnerable agent
(staff officer of the X53) for this kind of sov۵.
CSR/DEN/jif 0 11 Feb 64
Distribution:
Orig
- Adse
2 cc-
1 cc
1 cc
Acc
-
-
:
SR/CI/K-Day
C/CI
CSR
- DD/OS
Thomas i. Karamessines
Acting Deputy Director
for Plans
IND SEPPET
EYES ONLY

14-00000
CENTR
INTELLIGENCE
AGENCY
YES UNLI
C_NTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
OFFICE OF DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE
12 Februaту 1964
NEMORANDUM FOR:
United States Intelligence Board Members
SUBJECT:
Yuzi Ivanovich HOSENKO

1. This memorandna refers to the State Department
Telease of 10 February on subject case and provides addi-
tional background as well as information on his current
status.

2. As a 36B staff officer, NOSENKO is regularly
assigned to the Counterintelligence Directorate of the
Sa in Moscow but was included in the Soviet delegation
to the Diserament Conference as part of a cover arrange-
sent which permitted dia to carry out intelligence and
security functions in Canova on behalf of the XG3.
2.

3. NOSENKO also attended various sessions of the
Disarmament Conference held in Geneva in 1962, During the
course of these sessions, HOSENKO sought contact with
officials of the 5. 3. Government, informed these officials:
that he was affiliated with the Soviet State Security ap-
paratus and volunteered zo aid the B. 5, Goverment in
detecting Soviet subversive activity directed against the
B. S. Government. During the course of his contact with
U. S. authorities, NOSEXKO stated that his cooperation wità
the U. S. Government originated with his distaste and hatred
for the Soviet regime in general, with his desire to obtain
revenge for the unjust death of his father, a senior official
in the Soviet shipbuilding industry, and with the general
admirations of the Americans with whom he had come in con-
tact within the Soviet Union.
:
:
:
4. In lats January 1964, NOSENKO arrived in Geneva,
again masquerading as a zonder of the Soviet delegation
to the Disarmament Conforenco. Subject secretly notified
his CLA contacts in the United States concerning his pres-
ence in Ceneva and arranged to acet with these contacts,
During a series of meetings HOSENKO provided information
including documents concoming Soviet State Security acti-
vities within the USSR and abroad and a detailed account
۵۱۹
101320
EYES ONLY

14-00000
EYES JULY
of the KSB operation against against U. S. Professor Sarzhoorn
which NOSENKO said he had personally supervised at the
direction of SEMICHASTAIY, the Chairman of the Conaittes
for State Security: (KGB).
:
:
:-
:
5. During these most recent seatings NOSENKO announced
his desire to leave the USSR permanently and seek his future
in the dest. He clained his new work in the KGB (First
Deputy Chief of that departaent charged with the surveillance
and recruitment of American visitors to the USSR) was ax-
panding and that he would not be able to visit the Yest
with any frequency. Accordingly, he prepared a request for
political asylum in the United States. He was taken to
Frankfurt, Germany where he is currently undergoing interro-
gation. Plans are now being made to remove him to the U. S.
:-

5. It should be noted that CIA contact with Subject
has not been extensive and that we will require additional
*thorough interrogation to establish Subject's bona fides.
It should also be noted that NOSENKO's duties were not con-
carned with substantive aspects of the Disarmament Conference,
and he therefore is net expected to be able to shed much, if
any, light on that area of our interest.

7. The possibility that NOSENXO's defection was de-
signed to wreck the conference was most carefully considered.
The decision to accept biz was taken on the conviction that.
the Soviets would not have chosen such a vulnerable agent
(staff officer of the KGB) for this kind of move.

Marshall 5. Cartor
Lieutenant General, USA
Deputy Director

14-00000
Nosenko's Account Disputes Charge by Soviet
BY TAD SZULC
WASHINGTON, Feb17
Yuri L Nosenko told a Soviet
Defection Preceded Report
to Swis Polices Police Apparently
Ruling Out Negligence
Embassy inficial at their con
frontation here last Friday that
he left Switzerland on the way
to the United States 28-hour
before his defection was...re
ported by the Russians to the
tall separately with
Swiss authorities: Mr.N Nosenko
This statement by the former Information made, available
Swiss diplomat Had teens per
mitted to talle sepa
Central In
Service. Officials of the State
Department the Cent
talligence Agency and the
Immigration and Naturalization
Service were also present
air Nosenka was described as
having been completely relaxed
during the interview
He. is understood to have told
the Soviet diplomat have told
defected of his own volition
businesslike-conference that he
His statements, it was report
staff officer of the Soviet Com-today has thrownell light without any outside pressures
mittee of State Security, the on the defection
secret police appeared to amountThe Soviet delegation inted did not allay Soviet résent
to a denial of the Soviet charge, Geneva: it was reported told ment against Swiss authorities.
that the Swiss authorities had the Swiss police at 5: Feb. Diplomatic reports reaching the
been negligent in preventing his 5 that Mr. Nosenko was miss- State Department said that So-
defection.g. But fr. Nosenko's state viet diplomats in foreign capi-
Mr. Nosenko, who quit as a ments in the presence of the tals continued-to-register-com-
member of the Soviet delegation Soviet Embassy official are said plaints about alleged negligence
to the Geneva disarmament con-to have shown that his actual arter. Mr. Nosenko's conference
ference Febi was allowed to defection took took place at LPM with the Soviet diplomat
meet with Soviet: diplomat the preceding da
here in the presence of United Thes Soviet delegation
States officials nounced Mr Nosenko's disap-
The State Department an-pearance Fer
nounced at the time, that the The meeting between
confrontation was-taking place Nosenko-and the Soviet Em
in Washingtom at the request of bassy official took place in the
the Soviet Embassy, but no headquarters of the Washing-
other details were made public ton Feld office of the Im
The department said that almigration and Naturalization
196

14-00000
U.S. Lets Swiss
And Red Envoys fle
Talk to Defector
Nosenko Again
Voices Desire
For Asylum
By-Chalmers M Roberts
Soviet secret police de
fector Yuri I Nošenko is
in the United States where
he-was-interviewed yester
day by officials of both the
Russian and Swiss
bassies:
The State Department said
Beach interview lasted less than
an hours and that a Department
official was present each time:
Nosenko reaffirmed his earlier
request, for aslyum. in the
United States and it will be
granted.
State Department spokesman
Richard. I. Phillips, in giving
out. this information, declined
to say where the interviews
took place or to give any de
tails Earlier he had said it
was possible that newsmen
here will be allowed to talk
with-Nosenko
Soviet Kicks up Euss
These developments came
2s the Soviet Union kicked up
a diplomatic fuss over the dis
appearance of Nosenko on
Feb. 4, from Geneva, where
he had been assigned as an
"expert" in the Soviet delega-
tion at the 17-nation disarma-
ment conference. Philipps
said he was "on temporary
duty from KGB. (secret po
lice) headquarters in Mos
cow."
:
Up to yesterday Moscow
had been directing its public
diplomatic wrath at the
Swiss, charging them with
loose security. The provision
for a Swiss diplomat to inter-
view Nosenko was to assure
the Swiss that the United
States had taken part in no
illegal act on their soil.
The Swiss. already had
strongly rejected the Soviet
charges.
On Wednesday. Phillips re
See DEFECTOR, A5, Col. 1
WASH Post
2/15/64

14-00000
See Defector
ported yesterday, a Soviet called in American Ambassa
Embassy messenger: brought ata a dor Foy Kooler and charged
message to the State Depart the United States within
ment asking for information permissible acts in the case
as to the manner in which He stopped short of a kidnap
Nosenko presented him ing charge however Kohler
self to the US authorities replied that von behalf of the
and requested an opportunity United States he rejected any
to interview him The De implication of American wrong
partment agreed to the inter- doin
view with American officials
present and said Nosenko Serious Effects. Hinted
also was agreeable. A reply In Geneva Soviet officials,
about the defection also was including Tsarapkin himse
given to the Soviet Embassy privately spread to the press
Soon-Wednesday in Gen-
eva-Soviet disarmament dele hints of serious consequences
gate Semyon Tsarapkin Soon there were rumors that
gave-newsmen and angry state. Moscow would would pull outils dele
ment aimed at the Swiss and gation, but up to last night no
charging provocative activi, such threat atchad had actually been
ewarerumors
by Sunspecified Western
agents Up-to then Tsarapkin made, according to wore reacin
had been-saying both private ing Washington
ly and publicly that the No
In-public Tsarapkin said only
senkordelection would not af I have nothing to say Lam
fect the the disarmament talks not in the position to tell you
Yesterday the Soviets stepped
up their protest-in-two places, anything
Moscow and Geneva Atesome so far unspecified
In Moscow Soviet Foreign dates Nosenko, who had ap
Minister Andre Gromy to parently crossed from Switzer
:
land to France was flown to
the United States. Its as
sumeches the hands of
the Central Intelligence Agen
cythe normal course for de
Lectors
Officials rere yesterday
were knocking down the idea
that he was a particularly big
fish that he new any atomic
secrets that he knew any
thing About Soviet disarma
up to
ment strategy: Rather, they there had been no word
said, he was a KGR staff offi
cera security man operating last night of the defection on on
as is the Soviet practice, in the Soviet radios or in the
aight compartiment That press though word of mout
would mean be would have reports had spread through
useful and perhaps important the capital
knowledge bi part of the KGB
but probably not much more.
Believed Genuine
It was felt here that Moscow
might have stepped ruo.. its
protest, after- Tsarapkin-had
publicly downgraded the case
in. Geneva. At any rate U.S.
It is assumed here that the
36-year-old Nosenko is a gen-disarmament negotiator Wil-
uine defector though the pos- liam C. Foster and Tsarapkin
sibility of his being a double held another business session
agent has not been overlook in Geneva yesterday at which
ed. It also is, felt-here that they said the case was not dis-
the Soviet protest was no cussed
stronger than could be ex-- It also was noted here that
pected. The request for an the Soviet Communist Party
interview rare but not. un- Central Committee has been
precedented, was granted. in meeting In Moscow all this
hopes of reciprocal treatment; week. But whether the No-
should the occasion arisesenko čase was discussed was
Bioscavispatches said not known
WASIt Pos
2/15/

14-00000

12 May 1964
MEMORANDUM FOR: Acting Chief, Support Branch
FROM
SUBJECT
Dat
Chief, Operational Support Division
AEFOXTROT
#262622
DDCOS
DOGHOS
ASST/IOS
C
פרס
CATED
C3
C/30
C/SB
그 나다
This memorandumis primarily for the record and will
record the essence of a meeting held on the morning of 12 May
1964, at which the following were present: Messrs. Charles Kane,
Jack Bauman, OS; Dr. Charles Bohrer, Medical Staff; Messrs.
Bagley, Karpovich), McMahon and David Murphy, SR Division.

2. The essence of this meeting was furnished to the Acting.
Chief, Support Branch on 12 May 1964, as follows:

Effective immediately or as soon as practicable, the following
procedures will apply with regard to the handling of the
Subject
(1) Subject will receive a regular diet with modest regulated.
portions. He is to have no dessertor or "trimmings,"
but may have have the necessary silverware with which to
eat properly. (CAUTION--Extreme care should be
exercised with regard to controlling the silverware,
and it it was suggested that at least two of the guards
be required to count the silverware in and out; that..
the silverware be placed on the tray in a manner
where it could be observed before the guards enter
the room, etc.)
:
(2) Arrangements are to be made for the installation of
adequate air-conditioning equipment to insure that a
comfortable temperature is maintained. (It is under-
stood that there is quite a bit of equipment available
through Logistics channels.)
:
(3) Subject is to receive a bath; change of underwear;
change of uniform; and a change of linen for his bed.
ALTS
FILES

14-00000
(4) Subject is to receive a haircut, the shorter the better.
(5) Subject is to receive one cigarette on 12 May 1964.
(NOTE--These changes with regard to the bath, haircut,
cigarette are not to be considered as something to be
done on a regular schedule. We will await specific
instructions from SR Division as to when these items
are to be accomplished in the future.)
(6) Effective immediately, Dr. Bohrer will visit the
Subject only on Tuesday each week.
(7) In addition to the above, it must be emphasized that
our attitude toward the Subject will remain precisely
the same, and our security procedures, including
searches, will continue to be at maximum control.
:
3. It was further ascertained that we will have custody of
the Subject until at least July. It was suggested that perhaps we may
wish to explore some modifications in the assignment of personnel
or schedule of assignments. In addition, the Acting Chief, Support
Branch has suggested that immediate consideration be given to
devising necessary procedures to be followed in the event of an
emergency involving loss of control of the Subject. This should
be discussed immediately with the responsible DFO supervisors
and specific procedures devised, and all guards properly informed
as to their responsibilities in this matter.
Jack M. Bauman
Bauman/ewd(5-12-64)
2
