104-10439-10113
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

re: HCSA Request of 9 March, 1978, item #2:

"A statement, including any written regulations,
which establishes the criteria utilized by the
CIA in classifying its relationships with individuals
with whom it has had contact...."

Attached are:

1. DEFINITIONS OF: AGENT, ASSET, SOURCE, COLLABORATOR,
WITTING & UNWITTING

2. Hqs Regulations on Management of Nonstaff Personnel

 20-53 on Contract Personnel to define
Contract Employees and
20-54 Independent Contractors and
Agents (& clearly distinguish between
agents and contract personnel)
3. DOI 50-10 on Restrictions on Operational Use of
Certain Categories of Individuals
(a primer on do's & don'ts)

4. DOI (CSI) 10-5 on Covert Approvals and Related Matters
(processes required before an
individual may be used in any way)

13-00000

From Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary

AGENT: 1) A power that acts; a moving force; as by some human AGENT.

2) One who acts or performs an act or who has power to act;
as, a free moral AGENT.

3) That which produces or will produce a certain effect;
an active cause; also, esp. chem., a substance or
element capable of producing a reaction.

4) A means or instrument.

5) One who acts for, or in the place of, another, by
authority for him.

ASSET: 2) That which is a resource; as, character is an asset.

SOURCE: 2) The origin; the first or ultimate cause.

3) A person, book, document, etc. that supplies information.

COLLABORATOR: n.
COLLABORATE: 1) To work or act jointly, esp. to share in
literary, scientific, or other intellectual production.

2) To cooperate voluntarily as a nation with another or
other nations in international political or economic
adjustment.

3) To comply with, cooperate with, or assist willingly
the conquerors occupying one's country; --usually
with an implication of traitorous dealing
in distinction from passive acquiescence; also,
sometimes to give to an enemy nation aid of nonmilitary
kind, as by radio propaganda in enemy service.

WITTING: Done with the knowledge of the doer, or knowingly;
not unintentional.

UNWITTING: 1) Not knowing; unconscious; unaware.

2) Unintentional.

13-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

HQ. INSTRUCTION SHEET 733

REG. REMOVE INSERT EXPLANATION
NOS. PAGE DATE PAGE DATE
NOS. REG.
NOS.

HR 20 111 2/6/73 HR 20 111 2/23/73 Paragraph 53 is revised
125- 125- to redefine categories of
127 3/9/64 127 2/23/73 contract personnel. Minor
revisions are made to up-
date the paragraph.

 128 6/16/70 128- 2/23/73 Former paragraph 54, Pro-
 131 curement Contracts for the
 Services of Individuals,
 is renumbered 55 with no
 change in text.

 New paragraph 54, Agents,
 is added to establish
 authorities and responsi-
 bilities for the manage-
 ment of agents and to
 clearly distinguish
 between agents and contract
 personnel.
HR 20- 3/9/64 Rescinded.
129

Arrows in the page margin show the locations of the changes
described above.

DISTRIBUTION: AB

E2 IMPDET
S-E-C-R-E-T CL BY: 0022.30

13-00000

SECRET

PERSONNEL HR 20

CONTENTS-Continued

Paragraph Title Page

i. VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT 118.10
k. DISCONTINUED SERVICE BENEFITS 118.10
1. Not used.
m. INVOLUNTARY RETIREMENT 118.10
n. MANDATORY RETIREMENT FOR AGE 118.11
0. CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE FUND 118.11
p. PERIOD OF SERVICE FOR ANNUITIES 118.13
q. COMPUTATION OF ANNUITIES 118.16
r. RECALL OF RETIRED PARTICIPANT 118.19
S. REEMPLOYMENT OF RETIRED PARTICIPANT 118.19
t. MONIES 118.19
น. LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF RETIREMENTS 118.20

SECTION VIII: MANAGEMENT OF NONSTAFF PERSONNEL

51. PERSONNEL DETAILED TO OR FROM THE AGENCY 119
52. CONSULTANTS 123
53. CONTRACT PERSONNEL 125
54. AGENTS 128
55. PROCUREMENT CONTRACTS FOR THE SERVICES OF
 INDIVIDUALS 130
56-59. Reserved

SECTION IX: RECORDS AND REPORTS

60. PERSONNEL RECORDS AND REPORTS 155

Figure Title Page

1. DISTINGUISHED INTELLIGENCE CROSS 94.1
2. DISTINGUISHED INTELLIGENCE MEDAL 94.1
3. INTELLIGENCE STAR 94.1
4. INTELLIGENCE MEDAL OF MÉRIT 94.1
4a. CAREER INTELLIGENCE MEDAL 94.1
5. EXCEPTIONAL SERVICE MEDALLION 94.1
6. RETIREMENT MEDALLION 94.1
7. FORM 600, RECOMMENDATION FOR HONOR OR MERIT
 AWARD 95
8. Reserved
9. OFFICIAL SEAL OF THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 100.2
10. AGENCY FLAG 100.2
11. AGENCY PLAQUE 100.2
12. TABLE OF PERMISSIBLE CHANGES IN ENROLLMENT OF
 EMPLOYEES 106

Attachment Title Page

1. BIOGRAPHIC DATA TO BE SUBMITTED BY AN EMPLOYEE
 UNDER COVER ON AN INTENDED SPOUSE 29
2. FORM 3154, SERVICE ABROAD AGREEMENT 52.1

Revised: 23 February 1973 (733) lii
E2 IMPDET
SECRET CL BY: 002230

13-00000

PERSONNEL SECRET HR 20-53

53. CONTRACT PERSONNEL. This paragraph sets forth policy, authorities,
and responsibilities concerning the management of contract personnel. It does
not apply to consultants (see HR 20-52), to personal services acquired through
industrial or procurement contracts (see HR 20-55), to personnel employed by
proprietary projects (see HR 230-8), or to agents (see HR 20-54).

a. GENERAL. There are two categories of contract personnel: contract employees
and independent contractors.

(1) CONTRACT EMPLOYEES. Although they are not appointed employees,
contract employees are employees of the U.S. Government. They have all
the rights and privileges granted by law to U.S. Government employees
in accordance with their citizenship status as well as those rights and
privileges specified in their contracts. They work under supervised con-
ditions and are compensated on a salary basis. Contract employees are
grouped into three categories:

(a) Career Associate (Type C) Contract Employees: Contract employees
who perform duties, usually of a clandestine and operational nature,
on a career basis. They are normally required to demonstrate their
operational value to the Agency for not less than three years, in the
case of U.S. citizens, or not less than five years, in the case of foreign
nationals, to qualify for career associate status. When it is necessary
for a career associate to have the staff-type access to an Agency instal-
lation or classified information, he must meet the same security ap-
proval criteria as a staff employee.

(b) Internal (Type I) Contract Employees: Contract employees, engaged
for a specific period of time, who normally work inside Agency instal-
lations. They are required to meet the same security approval criteria
as staff employees, but are permitted only such access to classified
information as is authorized in their security approval and is required
in the performance of their duties.

(c) External (Type E) Contract Employees: Contract employees, engaged
for a specific period of time, who normally work outside Agency in-
stallations. They are not required to meet the same security approval
criteria as staff employees and are not permitted the same access
to Agency installations as staff employees or internal contract em-
ployees. They are permitted only such access to classified information
as is authorized in their security approval and is required in the per-
formance of their duties.

(2) INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS are not employees of the U.S. Government..
They are self-employed individuals who are engaged under contract to
provide specific services. They receive only the compensation and benefits
considered necessary to retain their services. In the Operations Directorate,
their duties are normally limited to historical research and analysis and
to the direction, utilization, spotting, or support of agents. They normally
do not carry out espionage or covert action tasks. (Care must be taken
to distinguish between independent contractors, defined herein, and agents,
defined in HR 20-54.)

jb. POLICY

(1) Contract personnel may be engaged when

(a) it is necessary to provide for operational or support needs which can-
not be met through the use of available staff personnel;
:
(b) services are required of particularly well-qualified individuals who
cannot meet all requirements for staff employment;
!
Revised: 23 February 1973 (733) 125
SECRET CL By: 002230
:

13-00000

SECRET

HR 20-53b(2) PERSONNEL P

(c) there is a requirement to meet operational needs without obligating
the Agency to long-term employment;

(d) the nature of the mission for which the individual is being engaged
precludes his being subject to administrative control or working spe-
cifically defined hours;

(e) the individual's primary employer or interest is not the Agency and
the services the Agency desires from him are supplementary to his
primary interest or vocation; or

(f) there is a long term requirement for personal services which, for op-
perational or security reasons, cannot be performed by Agency staff
personnel.

(2) The engaging of contract personnel is subject to the following restrictions:

(a) New contracts, contract renewals, and contract amendments for in-
dividuals under current or anticipated nonofficial cover, must have
prior approval of the appropriate component of the Operations Direc-
torate.

(b) Contract personnel may be engaged only for approved activities for
which funds have been made available. Funds for these activities will
be budgeted annually and will not exceed limitations imposed by the
head of the component concerned.

(c) Contract employees are subject to directorate manpower controls and
ceilings established by the Director of Central Intelligence during the
annual budgetary review cycle. Independent contractors are excluded
from ceiling controls.

(d) Contracts will, whenever possible, be written and signed. However,
when special security or operational factors prevent the execution of
a formal written contract, a memorandum in lieu of such a contract
may be prepared to document the commitments and obligations of the
Agency and the individual.

(d) Appropriate security or operational approvals will be obtained before
any contractual commitments are made to individuals and before any
disclosure to them of classified information.

(f) No commitments relating to the use of the services of an employee of
another Government agency will be made without prior approval of
the Operating Official or Head of Independent Office concerned and
the Director of Personnel.

(g) No commitments will be made to contract personnel that appointed
employment status will be offered at the conclusion of or during any
period of their contract service, without prior approval of the Director
of Personnel and the Director of Security.

(h) Contract employees must meet Agency medical standards prior to the
approval and authentication of their contracts. A psychological assess-
ment and psychiatric evaluation of those contract employees in whom
the Agency may have more than a short-term interest will be carried
out whenever feasible.

(i) Independent contractors are normally not required to meet Agency
medical standards; however, if their contract contains any provision
which obligates the Agency to provide medical or disability benefits.
a satisfactory medical examination is required, to include a psycho-
logical assessment and psychiatric evaluation, if necessary..
с.
:
126
→Revised: 23 February 1973 (733)
SECRET

SONNEL PERSONNEL SECRET HR 20-53c
obligating
; engaged
king spe- (j) Contract personnel candidates whose employment with the Agency
cannot be acknowledged must be provided adequate cover and an ap-
ency and propriate cover legend. This requires that legal entitlements and other
.ry to his contractual benefits be provided and tax liabilities satisfied in a
manner consistent with the character of the cover and cover legend.
, for op-
ency staff (k) Although staff employees are expected to sever active connections with
the Agency upon retirement, there may be instances in which continua-
strictions: tion in service under contract after retirement is necessary or clearly
ts for in- in the best interests of the Agency. The use of retired annuitants under
aust have contract is governed by policies specified in HR 20-13.
ons Direc-
(1) Not used.

ivities for (m) Contracts providing for basic compensation at a rate which, if pro-
vities will jected on an annual basis, would exceed the maximum annual rate
ed by the for a GS-15, will not be executed without the approval of the Director
of Central Intelligence. All such requests will be forwarded through
ontrols and the Director of Personnel for his recommendation.
luring the
c. RESPONSIBILITIES
excluded
(1) THE DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL will
However,
ecution of (a) formulate contract personnel management policies and procedures and
a contract provide guidance in improving the effectiveness and flexibility of the
ons of the program within the Agency;
(b) monitor contract personnel management to assure consistency among
ned before the directorates while giving due regard to their differing needs;
before any (c) provide a repository for sensitive suitability information using the
guidelines for special files set forth in HR 20-60b(4);

mployee of (d) approve and authenticate contracts;
pproval of (e) monitor contract employee ceiling authorizations established by the
erned and Director of Central Intelligence;
(f) maintain computer-based records on contract personnel and ensure
appointed currency and accuracy of input and output data.
luring any
(2) THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY will
ne Director
(a) establish standards and procedures for granting security approvals
rior to the which meet the Agency's contract personnel requirements;
ical assess- (b) grant security approvals for the use of contract personnel including
s in whom their access to classified information and Agency installations;
be carried (c) ensure currency and adequacy of security approvals by making periodic
reviews and reevaluations;

eet Agency (d) provide a repository for all security information pertaining to con-
tract personnel.
y provision (3) THE CHIEF, CENTRAL COVER STAFF will
y benefits,
a psycho- (a) provide cover and cover legends for contract personnel whose em-
ployment by the Agency cannot be publicly acknowledged;
(b) ensure currency of such cover and cover legends by making periodic
L reviews and reevaluations;
(c) ensure that the methods of providing legal entitlements and con-
tractual benefits and satisfying tax liabilities are consistent with as-
signed cover and cover legends.
(4) THE DIRECTOR OF MEDICAL SERVICES will
(a) establish standards and procedures for medical and psychiatric evalua-
tions and for psychological assessment of contract personnel;

1973 (733) Revised: 23 February 1973 (733) 127
SECRET E2 IMPDET
CL By: 002230

PERSONNEL SECRET
HR 20-54
(b) make periodic reviews and medical reevaluations of contract personnel
when requested to do so.
(5) DEPUTY DIRECTORS AND HEADS OF INDEPENDENT OFFICES will en-
sure directorate uniformity of contract administration in matters such as
qualifications determination, compensation, allowances and other benefits,
personnel record keeping, systematic cost accounting, performance evalua-
tions, cover determination and training, terminations, and security and
medical approval processing requirements.
(6) THE DIRECTOR OF TRAINING will provide appropriate training courses
and facilities for contract personnel.
(7) THE DIRECTOR OF FINANCE will

(a) administer pay, leave, and allowance entitlements of contract person-
nel consistent with contract provisions and cover requirements;
(b) in coordination with the Covert Taҳ Board, administer a secure system
for the settlement of Federal income tax and social security tax ob-
ligations.
d. AUTHORITIES
(1) The Director of Personnel, his Deputy, and the Special Contracting Officer
(Chief, Contract Personnel Division) are, upon request of a Deputy Director,
an Operating Official, Head of Independent Office, or a duly appointed
contract approving officer, authorized to execute, amend, renew, and
terminate contracts with contract personnel.
(2) Deputy Directors and Heads of Independent Offices may designate Con-
:
tract Approving Officers to approve contracts when payment is to be
charged against funds under their control.
(3) Authority delegated to Chiefs of Station and Base under the provisions of
FR 20-31 is subject to the following limitations:

(a) All contracts executed in the field will be subject to review by the
Director of Personnel.
(b) Deputy Directors may limit the exercise of the authority granted to
chiefs of field installations to any extent they deem desirable.
(c) Contracts prepared by headquarters will be amended only by, or with
the prior approval of, headquarters. Contracts executed in the field
may be amended in the field, but all such amendments must be for-
warded to headquarters.
(4). All contracts written under the authority of this regulation will be subject
to legal review by the General Counsel under such conditions as he may
prescribe.
e. PROCEDURES. Requirements and procedures concerning personnel records,
personnel actions, security approvals, cover, cover salary, medical evaluations,
compensation, qualifications determination, training, and processing of con-
tracts, are set forth in HHB 20-12.

54. AGENTS. This paragraph sets forth policy, responsibilities, and authorities
concerning the engagement and the management of agents.

a. GENERAL. Agents are witting manpower assets, unique to the Operations
Directorate, who carry out espionage and covert action tasks on behalf of the
Agency. Agents are not employees of the U.S. Government. They are self-
employed individuals whose services may be acquired or terminated at any
time. Care must be taken to distinguish between agents, defined herein, and
independent contractors, defined in HR 20-53a(2).
128 →Revised: 23 February 1973 (733)
SECRET

PERSONNEL
b. POLICY L

(1) Agents cannot
 Government em
 with normal pe
 (a) Initial appro
 commitmen
 an agent.
 (b) Agents will
 and a manı
 and control
 (1) No com
 pensatio
 at a rat
 maximı
 This lir
 does no
 (2) No com
 fits, wit
 benefit:
 normal
 expens
 (3) No com
 will be
 mitmer
 Operat
 Securit
 (c) Engagemer
 controls.
 (d) In general
 ards. Howe
 to provide
 be carried
 (e) Agents wh
 the United:
 their assoc
 tax liabilit
 20-35.)
 (f) The use of
 will be go

(2) All commitme
 Formal Agreer!

 (a) A Formal
 an author:
 tiated wh
 (b) A Memora
 ment, sign
 agent. Use
 those case
 agent's si
 (c). An agent:
 randumo

→Revised: 23 Februa

PERSONNEL SECRET HR 20-54b

b. POLICY
(1) Agents cannot claim rights and privileges normally granted to U.S.
Government employees; therefore, they will not be managed in accordance
with normal personnel and administrative standards.

(a) Initial approval of the Counter Intelligence Staff is required before any
commitments are made or any classified information is disclosed to
an agent.

(b) Agents will receive compensation, benefits, and emoluments in amounts
and a manner deemed best by the Operations Directorate to motivate
and control them, subject to the following limitations:

(1) No commitment may be made to an agent to provide gross com-
pensation (basic compensation, additional compensation, fees, etc.)
at a rate which, if projected on an annual basis, would exceed the
maximum rate for a GS-15, without prior approval of the Director.
This limitation applies only to payments made by the Agency. It
does not apply to bona fide cover income.

(2) No commitment may be made to an agent to provide special bene-
fits, without the prior approval of the Director of Personnel. Special
benefits are Agency obligations other than basic compensation,
normal overseas cost of living payments, and travel or operational
expenses.

(3) No commitment may be made to an agent that appointed status
will be offered at the conclusion of his service unless such com-
mitment has been recommended by the Deputy Director for
Operations or his designee, with the concurrence of the Director of
Security, and has been approved by the Director of Personnel.

(c) Engagement of agents will not be subject to Agency personnel ceiling
controls.

(d) In general, agents will not be required to meet Agency medical stand-
ards. However, if an agreement with an agent obligates the Agency
to provide medical or disability benefits, a medical examination will
be carried out, unless precluded by security considerations.

(e) Agents who are U.S. citizens, resident aliens, or foreign nationals in
the United States, must pay Federal tax on all income derived from
their association with the Agency. Procedures for satisfying Federal
tax liability will be determined by the Covert Tax Board. (See HR
20-35.)

(f) The use of retired civilian annuitants of the U.S. Government as agents
will be governed by policy set forth in HR 20-13.

(2) All commitments made or implied to agents will be recorded in either a
Formal Agreement or a Memorandum of Oral Commitment.
:
(a) A Formal Agreement is a written agreement, signed by the agent and
an authorized Agency representative. Formal Agreements will be nego-
tiated whenever operationally feasible.

(b) A Memorandum of Oral Commitment is a written record of an agree-
ment, signed by an authorized Agency representative but not by the
agent. Use of Memorandums of Oral Commitment will be limited to
those cases when it is in the Agency's best interest not to solicit an
agent's signature on a Formal Agreement.

(c) An agent will never be given a copy of the Formal Agreement or Memo-
randum of Oral Commitment.

→Revised: 23 February 1973 (733) 129
SECRET E2 IMPDET
CL By: 002230

SECRET

HR 20-55 PERSONNEL

C. RESPONSIBILITIES AND AUTHORITIES

(1) The Deputy Director for Operations is authorized to

(a) formulate procedures for the engagement and management of agents
and to issue operating directives and special instructions, as necessary,
to control the use of agents by headquarters and field units;

(b) execute, amend, renew, and terminate Formal Agreements and Memo-
randums of Oral Commitment with agents; and to review Formal
Agreements and Memorandums of Oral Commitment executed in the
field;

(c) suspend procedures implied in this regulation upon his personal deter-
mination that operational and security aspects of an agent's manage-
ment are so sensitive as to require processing through special channels.

(2) The Director of Personnel is authorized to

(a) approve, after coordinating with affected Agency components, the
commitment to an agent that he will receive special benefits;

(b) approve the commitment to an agent that he will be offered appointed
status at the conclusion of his service, when such commitment has
been recommended by the Deputy Director for Operations or his des-
ignee, with the concurrence of the Director of Security;

(c) execute, amend, renew, and terminate Formal Agreements and Memo-
randums of Oral Commitment when requested to do so by the appro-
priate Operations Directorate approving officer. This authority may also
be exercised by the Deputy Director of Personnel and the Special Con-
tracting Officer, Office of Personnel.

(3) All Formal Agreements and Memorandums of Oral Commitment written
under the authority of this paragraph will be subject to legal review by
the General Counsel under such conditions as he may prescribe.

55. PROCUREMENT CONTRACTS FOR THE SERVICES OF
INDIVIDUALS

a. POLICY. Procurement contracts whose basic purpose is to obtain the services
of one or more individuals, negotiated with profit and nonprofit institutions,
associations, partnerships, proprietorships, and other organizations, are per-
mitted only when the particular services sought cannot be obtained in any
other practicable way.

b. PROCEDURES

(1) Except as provided in subparagraph b(3) below, all proposals for such
procurement contracts and their renewal must be justified in writing by
the component seeking the services and be submitted to the Director of
Personnel for his approval before commitments are made or negotiations
started. These proposals will describe in some detail the services to be ren-
dered, the qualifications required, the proposed duration of the task, and
the reason or reasons why a procurement contract is judged to be the
best method of acquiring the needed services.
130 →Revised: 23 February 1973. (733)
SECRET
PERSONNEL

(2) The Direct
personnel a
examine th
sonnel. If t
rector of P
Office of L
tract reque
are written
HR 45-2.

(3) The approv

 (a) for pro
 dental
 reports,
 task pe
 time (F
 (b) for pro
 requires
 testing,
 follow-
 tion-r
 above.

C. RESTRICTIONS

(1) Operating (
 through the
 erly briefed
 Agency infc
 Operating(
 the relatior
 affects the
 curity clear

(2) Technical 1
 procuremen
 employer-en
 organization
 istrative au
 the Agency
 cies, private

56-59. Reserved.
Revised: 23 Febru

PERSONNEL SECRET HR 20-55c

(2) The Director of Personnel will ascertain whether any staff or nonstaff
personnel are available to perform the needed services. If not, he will
examine the feasibility of satisfying the requirement by hiring new per-
sonnel. If this latter course of action also proves impracticable, the Di-
rector of Personnel will approve the proposal and return it either to the
Office of Logistics or to the originator for subsequent submission of a con-
tract request to the appropriate procurement unit. Procurement contracts
are written under the authority of the Director of Logistics as stated in
HR 45-2.

(3) The approval of the Director of Personnel is not required

(a) for procurement contracts involving the services of individuals inci-
dental to research and development or the preparation of studies or
reports, where the fee reflects an end product (a report written, a
task performed, etc.) rather than a computation based mainly on
time (per hour, per man year);

(b) for procurement contracts involving the purchase of equipment which
requires the services of experts or technicians in delivery, installation,
testing, initial operation or maintenance, training, etc. However, any
follow-on contract for services only-such as maintenance or opera-
tion-requires the Director of Personnel's prior approval as set forth
above.

c. RESTRICTIONS

(1) Operating Officials are responsible for monitoring all personnel acquired
through these procedures. They will ensure that such personnel are prop-
erly briefed and thoroughly understand any limitations on their access to
Agency information and buildings and other pertinent security restrictions.
Operating Officials are required to advise appropriate offices at any time
the relationship or use of such individuals is subject to a change. which
affects the terms of their contractual arrangements, their status, or se-
curity clearances.

(2) Technical representatives and other types of personnel engaged under
procurement contracts or other agreements which do not create a direct
employer-employee relationship are prohibited by law from holding formal
organizational positions or positions requiring the exercise of any admin-
istrative authority. They are also prohibited from formally representing
the Agency in meetings with representatives of other Government agen-
cies, private industry, or foreign governments or industries.

56-59. Reserved.

Revised: 23 February 1973 (733) 131
SECRET E2 IMPDET
CL By: 002230

13-00000

SECRET

DOI 50-10

DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-GENERAL
NO. 50-10 4 September 1973

RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATIONAL USE OF CERTAIN
CATEGORIES OF INDIVIDUALS

Rescission: CSI 50-10, 13 July 1970
G
1. GENERAL
a. Elemental in the conduct of clandestine operations is the use of human
agents to accomplish the missions of the Operations Directorate. In gen-
eral, it is DDO policy to select agent assets with primary regard to the
agents' abilities, target access, and security, and with few restrictions as
to their origins, professions or status as members of particular groups. The
basic rule is that any consenting adult may be used by the Operations
Directorate. There are, however, certain sensitive categories of individuals
or groups whose operational use by the Operations Directorate is prohibited
or in some way restricted for reasons not necessarily related to security
considerations.

b. These prohibitions or restrictions stem from one of the following:

(1) The Agency has been directed by U.S. Governmental authority to
restrict or avoid the operational use of a particular category of in-
dividuals.

(2) The Agency has entered into a special restrictive agreement with an
organization, government, corporation, or official responsible for a
category of individuals.

(3) The Director or the Deputy Director for Operations has imposed
restrictions on the operational use of a certain category of individuals
due to the extreme risk or sensitivity of such exploitation.

2. PURPOSE.

The purpose of this instruction is to set forth the prohibitions and policy
restrictions (as distinguished from security restrictions) which currently per-
tain to the operational use of various categories of individuals, together with
the special approval procedures to be followed in certain cases. Where ap-
propriate, reference has been made to another publication which provides
more detailed guidance than has been attempted in this instruction. The
special approval procedures set forth in this instruction do not supersede or
alter in any way the requirements for covert approvals contained in DOI
and DOI-F 10-5. (attached)

1
SECRET E-2 IMPDET

13-00000

DDO INSTRUCTION SECRET DOI 50-10
NO. 50-10 OPERATIONS-GENERAL
 4 September 1973
D
3. DEFINITIONS
Within the context of this instruction, the definitions listed below will apply.
Special note must be taken of the fact that the key term "operational use"
employed throughout this instruction has been defined in the most succinct
manner consistent with clarity. It has not been feasible, however, to cover in
a definition the entire scope of possible variations in operational circumstances
which may be encountered in DDO activities. The definition of "operational
use" is intended to provide guidance for the majority of cases, and must be
employed with responsible operational judgment. Issues involving a deter-
mination of "operational use" which cannot be resolved with reasonable as-
surance by the responsible operating components will be referred to the
Deputy Director for Operations for decision.

a. Operational Use
Operational use is interpreted to mean the recruitment, utilization, or train-
ing of any individual or group for DDO purposes on either a witting or
unwitting basis by or on the behalf of an element of the Operations Direc-
torate. Utilization is made of an individual or group whenever that in-
dividual or group, responding to the direction or solicitation of a DDO
element, provides information, performs services, provides cover, or supplies
financial, material, or other support necessary for the accomplishment of
DDO operational objectives either directly or indirectly, to or for an ele-
ment of the Operations Directorate.

b. DDO Element
Any person or group who or which is responsible to, owned or controlled
either directly or indirectly by the Operations Directorate. Included under
this definition are employees or members of Agency proprietary mech-
anisms.

c. Operational Contact
Any association having as its purpose the initiation or furtherance of DDO
operations.

4. RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATIONAL USE

a. Restrictions on the operational use of individuals or groups are of four types
and cover twenty five separate categories as outlined below and as described
in greater detail in paragraphs 5 through 8 of this instruction:

(1) Operational Use is Prohibited (see paragraph 5):

(a) Members and trainees of ACTION;

(b) Fulbright grantees;
2
D
D
SECRET

13-00000

SECRET DOI 50-10
(?
DDO INSTRUCTION OPERATIONS-GENERAL
ΝΟ. 50-10 4 September 1973

(c) Officials or employees of the International Association for Cultural
Freedom;

(d) Officials, employees, or grantees of the Ford, Rockefeller and
Carnegie Foundations;

(e) Employees of U.S. private detective investigative agencies.

(2) Operational Use Requires Special Extra-Agency Concurrence (see
paragraph 6): AND APPROVAL OF SA/ADDO,

(a) Employees of other U.S. Government agencies;

(b) DDO agents or assets in the United States; -

(c) Agents and human sources of foreign intelligence registered by
other U.S. agencies;

(d) Citizens (or persons documented as citizens) of Australia, Canada,
the United Kingdom (including its overseas dependent territories)
and New Zealand;

(e) Citizens of Norway, West Germany and The Netherlands;

(f) Merchant seamen on ships of certain countries.

(3) Operational Use Requires Special Approval by the DDO (see para-
graph 7):

(a) Publishers, producers, journalists or employees of public infor-
mation media;

(b) CARE employees;

(c) Individuals engaged in public relations activities;

(d) Officials, representatives, or employees of Communist countries
in the United States;

(e) Foreign delegates or employees of the United Nations assigned
in the U.S. and U.S. citizen delegates or employees wherever
assigned;

(f) Staff members or officials of Red Cross societies;

(g) Officials of the Vatican State;

(h) U.S. Government-funded professors, lecturers, students or grantees;

(i) Members of educational or private voluntary organizations;

(j) Officials or employees of the African-American Institute;

(k) Volunteers to America.

(4) Operational Use Requires Approval by Chief of Area Division (see
paragraph 8):

(a) Citizens or alien residents of the U.S. in denied areas;

(b) Non-U.S. citizen delegates or employees of United Nations or-
ganizations not assigned in the U.S.;

(c) Members of the academic community.

b. Operational use of an individual who comes under more than one type of
restriction will be controlled by the highest type of restriction applicable
in his particular case.
3
SECRET

13-00000

DDO INSTRUCTION SECRET DOI 50-10
NO. 50-10 ) OPERATIONS-GENERAL
 4 September 1973

5. OPERATIONAL USE PROHIBITED