14-00000
104-10169-10017
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Chief, Tack Force/W
Chief of Station, JAVE
Operational/GYROSE
FAL/Vertice Tres
05
CКA - 205
2 April 1932

1. On 31 March 1962 Alberto Mariano Parojon Cerconas, A 12895179,
born 11 December 1933, a bank employco, lieni address: 401 17 18th Ave
no telephono, vas interviewed.
211 Ave.
10
2. Source said he was a member of EAC, FAL and Vortice Tres (The
Third Position").

3. Source said that EAC (Salvar a Cuba) vas destroyed by Cuban
security forcos.
X-
4. Source said that FAL (Fuerza Anti-Caunista de Liberacion) is
voll organized, the best organized boing the forces in Piner Col Rio
Province. He said that FAL has come ems and crmunition, and is en action
type group, conspiring to provoke an uprising and cutting off cxmmunica
tions, Cource was reluctant to news any FAL contact, but finally noned
06 Rona Parejon Porezas a contact men. l'a ucid that he could arrange bona
Fides with Parojon, and ho was told that perhaps in the future cazzone
would call upon him and introduce themselves as "cnicos de Echerto" and
discuss th is in further detail. Ha agreed. No said that some monthe
ego tho 'FAL sont out (microfibeed maps showing uitas for landing arms and
also ito propooda caching sites, but he did not know to whom this informa-
MReus tion was passed.
meere-all.
th
fronebart
5. Source said that he was also associated with Vortice Tros, and
Barts Boscribed this organization as boing: composed of intellectuals and
documents professionals. Its mission is not cleer boccuse as he doucribed it one
of the functions is to explain the horrors of the Caunist system to the
massos by the adoption of a third position. Vortico is also intorestod in
more subtle approaches, such as industrial slowdoms and sabotage. The
erphasis, however, appears to be on propaganda and he said Vortice is on
the point of obtaining a radio plant. lo vas caked if this was a "pirato
radio", but he replied no, that it would remain on the air so that it could
De hoard. When asked about the Dring problems, ho said he was told by an
enginoor who is working on this project that it was a "Dolta System Radio"
and they would not have to be afraid of Wing. (This does not make senco,
but it was all the source know on this subject.)

6. Bource said that Vortice noods supplies, such as Minox cameras,
but he would not or could not give the name of a Vortice contact in Kabana.

He said there/

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reprodupe

BIBR

14-00000

CCA - 105
poco 2
He said there is a Vertice contest in Milani, Cerario (lnu) and although
ho did not know the lestream or address of Cerereo, ho was going to try
and locato him. I was again reminded of the "calcos" who would call
on him for this information.

7. Source caid that before he left Cuba ho rot with Paccio Carrillo,
06.08
the nicce of Justo Cerrillo Cho told him that Justo cent in a message
saying "De careful with Flavio, Laccio asked the source to get in touch
06 with Justo Jand tell his that if he hat derogatory information on Flavio
he should send the details. The thought Justoja cassage vas confusing.
Source said that "Flavio" is the ver noms For Evolio Duque who also uses
"Trent" and "Manolito." Source said that it is believed that the
Evelio Duque is in itself a var name.

8. Source identified Arturo Colri, an employee of the National Park,
Agonota 1:-10-10, Lirca y O Vedačo, Habana, as a self-acnitted member of
0-2. Arturo is about 32 years old, whito, stocky (about 150 pounds), 5'8"
tall, white, black hair and has a large mustacho. Ea was formerly the
bandyman at the bank, but because of his G-2 position he is now a man of
prostice and catered to by all.

Folson L. NAYROCK
