14-00000
104-10183-10262
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
2321372
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

PRIORITY DIR CITE SALV 5301
DYVOUR PERUNEN AMNUG
REFSA SALV 5296 (~82314
DIR 52859
1. IN ACCORDANCE REFS COS AND LANOSCH VET JUHILL MORN
13 SEPTEMBER IN COS OFFICE TO BRIEF HIM ON JUAVE 2 RECRUITMENT,
IMPORTANCE AND SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS. FURILLAS IAS EUCH INFRESS-
ED AND ACCEED ENPHATICALLY CALY HE AND PRESIDENT WOULD K
RECRUITMENT AND THEY WOULD MAKE NO RECORD OF IT. DULA

LANGOSCH FOR THE JAVE 2 IS MOST INPOSTANT LOCAL TARET
BECAUSE HE HAS FLEECE OF AND ACCESS TO SCENIE PARTIES SALU AND
COUNTRIES, IS POPULAR IN IVERSITY AND STOLENT 08
29 UAPITARY COMMITTEE, TRAVELS FREQUEN
LEADER
TO
AT SOSCOW, PRA
OTHER
BRITISH
FOR YEARS TO
CONTACTS, WAS TRAINED CARA
IAL IN PARTY: BUT THAT ANY IN
LOSS OF JAVE 2 AND ALL DE COULD PRODU

ONE OF HIS AGENTS VAD ALREADY HAS LEET SALV

SECRET
• I2IBR
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE:
SECRET

ARRANGED CONTACT WITH JUVE 2. HILL ACCEPTED WITHOUT QUEST
MADE TO DEMANDS, ORTERED ALL HIS FACILITIES AND UTMOST
COOPERATION TO KULARKS CCS AND LA: 30 SCH BELIEVE THERE HAS BEEN NO
SECURITY PROELEN TO DATE.

3. DO NOT PLAV HIT ANY OTHER TARGETS SALV AT THIS TIME, EXCEPT
JAVE 1, ASJE 2 OP TOG IMPORTANT IC RISK DRAWING ATTENTION
TO KUERY PRESENCE OR RECRUITMENT EFFORTS. PLAN TO CONTINUE
JAVE INTERROCATION AND RECRUITMENT EFFORT. MIS SILENCE AND
COLLABORATION IMPORTANT IN THEMSELVES BUT ALSO FOR FGRESCING REASON

JAMES HANDLE EXACTLY AS KUPARK LINES
HAVE NOT SPECIFIED AMOUNT OF PEMUNERATION TO JUNAVE 2 EXCEPT
THAT IT WILL INCLUDE PAYING COST OF FURTHER STUCES OF BROTHER IN
COSCERS PEST FRC: VIEWPOINT OF ADEQUATE
SECURITY STANDPOINT. AFTE?
GRADUATION NED
PROTES HAR SPECIALIZED IN CANCER RESEARCH
ESPECIALLY ACER COMPLETING WORK AT ICE AND
EXPECTED PETUN SALY OCTOPER. HAVE TOLD HAVE 2 BROTHER MUST HAVE
SCHOOL AND OTICS FOROS TO ESTACLISH COMPETENCE IN APPLYING FOR

ASAP SURVEST SCHOOLS, HOSPITALS OR RESEARCH
CONE SHOULD APPLY AND WHERE PREFERATLY KUZARK
SECURELY CAT F LITATE PAPID ACCEPTANCE, TOOTHER WITH SUCRESTEZ
ANS PAY

SPEAKS ONLY SPANISH BUT HAS PAD INS
TOLEAVE JAVE 2 FROTHER MUST
 HAVE TOLD JAVE 2 ANC ΑΠΟΓΡΤΑΚΟΣ ΑΤ

SECRET
(?)
12/BR
