104-10171-10020 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

TO Chief of Station, JHNAVE UFG

INFO Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

FROM Chief of Base, JMBAR

SUBJECT JMZIP/KUTUBE/KUDES/KUSODA
DRS Internal Codes/Sources and Companion

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
A. BARR-0270
B. WAVE-1220 (not sent DIR)

MICROFILMED
OCT 2 1 1968

DOC. MICRO. BER.

1. Forwarded under separate cover per reference B request are Subject
codes and related information. Please note that the second code does not
contain the "ll" of the Spanish alphabet as does the first code. If
accessable, sources should be contacted for code-check.

2. In submitting the information the three DRE representatives
requested to be interviewed jointly. Spokerman for the group was Adolfo 04
BARRO Garcia, A fourth refugee, Rafael SANTANA Avares, entered PBPRINE with
the DRE representatives.
04,08
a. Adolfo BARRO Garcia aka ALLST-Cut Cuines, Las Villas. DPOB - 30 Sep 1943, Quomado de
Subject was a student until April 1961, He is a
tom member of the Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE) in Sagua la
Grande, Las Villas and is the regional coordinator for the DRE in the
area comprised of Corralillo, Rancho Veloz, Quemado de Cuines, Isabela
de Sagua, Sitiesito, sitio Grande, Cifuentes, Amaro, En Crusijada,
Calabasete de Sagua. The DRE has approximately 1000 man in this area
but they lack arms and other equipment. A sending and receiving set
in MADRID aka FAUSTINO is the present coordinator in Sagua da Crande,
Las Villas. The purpose of their trip to PBPRINE is to contact Manuel
SALVAT in Miend, Florida. They plan to return to Cuba.

04,08
b. Fernandes ARCO Hernandez aka ADAT DPOB - 21 Aug 1943, Sagua
la Grande, Las Villas.

04,08
c. Manuel Antonio ALZUGARAY Perez aka HECTOR DPOB - 18 Jan 1943,
Santa Clara, Las Villas.

Attachments: 1 a/s, vovere

Distribution:
3 JMWAVE w/1 att.
3.- HD v/1 att.

19 - 120 - 18
19 - 120 - 33

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

-2-

04
d. Rafael SASTAVA Alvarez DPH - 7 November 1932, Las Villas.
Subject was a chauffeur (taxi-driver) and plans to be at/7750 Normandy
Drive, Apt. 2, Miami, Florida, while in PUPRIME. He stated that he resided
08 at Bernaza No. 210 Havana, Cuba. Though he was not a member of any
clandestine group, he assisted the MRR group in Caibarien and just recently
assisted others to leave the country. Subject and the aforementioned
persons departed Cuba on board the Cuban /V BLAICA ESTRELLA Jonied by INRA 08
but operated by Subject's brother Israel SATAA Alvares, who dropped them 06
at Anguila and returned to Cuba to bring others out that were supposed to
meet them, but they missed their connections. Subject's group departed
from Isabela de Sagua, Las Villas 24 January 1962 at approximately 2400 hours.
On 22 December 1961 a group of approximately twenty muitiamen and men from
the ORI were drinking in various bars and displaying the Communist flag.
Anyone who appeared to be unsympathetic was beaten. They also went to
the homes of some who wore suspected of being anti-Castroites and would
beat them also. They beat up approximately twenty persons. This took
place in Calbarion, Las Villas. Subject was one of many arrested between.
22 and 26 December. When they were taken to a restaurant across from
the G-2 office, Subject managed to escape. The other three men that
came with him on the boat managed to hide him until they made good
their escape by boat.ubject lists the following as G-2 agents!

Antonis OBRECON Correa, Mayor of Calbarien, Las Villas
Une TOYO (nickname) is the head of the G-2 in Caibarien
(fnu) VILLASON is the assistant to roro
Evaristo HERRERA, who also works on a boat transhipping sugar from Cayo
Franges to Caibarien, Las Villas
Roberte ROJOS akESPONJO
Luciang DETAJA, Juanito HESTAIA and four other brothers
Guillermo SANTANA, Andres SATAA, Lorenzo SA TAMA

Subject further stated that Pedro 10.T&RO, Alejo HOTERO and Eduardo 06,06,06
MONTERO are active members of the MR group in Caibarien, Las Villas.
06 Francisco ROBLE is the active coordinator for the PP in this area.
Andres and Guillermo GO ZALEZ (fishermen) are informers for the G-2
in Caibarien. They will propose that they help Cubans get out of the
country. When all preparations are set up, the fishermen inform on
those wanting to leave. The same applies to Jose (Pepe MIRO, Evelio
GARCIA and Lado CUMA, all of Caibarion, Las Villas. Subject also stated
that the 381st and 382nd Battalion of militia are presently in Caibarien,
Las Villas. Subject states he is willing to return to Suba and work for
the underground. (Source Comment: If this subject is to be used in any
manner, please be reminded that he claims to have escaped from the C-2.
He may be trying to infiltrate the groups here or he may be trying to
find out how the DRK operates in the Las Villas zone.

CITLUEA

ccc. Fahim

End of Message

SS GORY

SECRET.
DRS INTERNAL CODES

Litat Gods they will use is the followings

Banda de 40 moters
7,500 kilocyclos

Clave Loon
Agente - 13 (identified only as "ilidio
radio tochnialm)

Breadcast times 8:30a.m. or 8:30 p.m. Las Fillas

The code name to be used whan transmitting will to CUFARILLERO
A B C D E F G H I J K L
Pas 185 ARADO 000-70 DIA LIBRE LOMA 90 000-22 LUZ 00-14 CALMAN
X Y Z OP Q R S T U V W
130-3 LUNA 0023 SAPO CARRO 122-9 8-18000-78 GATO SILLON 51-3 614
LL
33-1 COTORRA 109-18 802-3

COOK FOR NIDABERS:
1. 145-20. 2. 893-104 3. CANON -00 4. 657-6 5.00-21.50 6. ALCATRAZ
7. SICLON 8. 2000-17 9. 56-00 0.34-18

PUNTO ENTRE PALABRA Y PALABRA

Second code to be used-they will use one code one day and the other the next:
Samo hand Code's name FUEGO" to indicate which code is being used
Samo frequency Agente - 13
Same time Las Villas

The same code nano GUERRILLO will be used when transmitting
Δ. 124 H PALOMA
B. PEZ L. 644
C. LUNA-LLENA J. 35
D. CAIN Κ. 17-23
E. 172 L. 43-4
F. BORRO M. 180-9
G. 840 N. 14-63

S CIELO U. 419
0. RIO V.000-4
P. 93.2 ४. 00-61
९. 51-33 Χ. 6790
R. 125 Υ. ΡΙΑΝΟ
S. CAMPU Z. CALMAN
T. 340-5

PUNTO ENTRE PALABRA Y PALABRA

SECRET

-2-
Places that they can deliver arms and equipsent or other materialال
CAYNAL (ALACRAN) AMUILAS - (LUNA LLADA). ROQUE ANY - (LOXOFORA)

Code for numberss
1. TIBURON 2. 963 3. 1,500 4, 10,000 5. CAYON 6. JOSE 7. FIERRO
8. RATON 9% MOTOR 0. 11

thenever making any phone calls they will use the following codos
LLAMAR A SRA. MARCO - SALADO A ISARELA DE SAGA, LAS VILLAS DE PARTE DE JUAN ANTONIO
OHIBGA EN MIAMI-AL HABLAR: RECUERDOS A NIVOS Y PADRE.

ESTOT HABLANDO
CATO SAL
PLYTANDO ROQUE KEY
RECIBI CARTAS IAL BIA - PARA RECOJE

SECRET

SECRET
DRE ENTERNAL CODES

Einat Code they will use is the followings

Banda de 40 meters.
7,509 kilecycles

Clave Leon
Agente - 13 (identified only as "Elidio
radie technician)

Brendenst simes 8:30 am, or 8:30 p.m. Las Fillas

The code nase to be used when trossmitting will be CUERRILLERO
A B C D E F G H I J K L
PAS 185 185 ARADO C00-70 DA LIBRE LOA LOYA 90. 000-23 LUZ 2 00-14 CANA
X Y Z OP Q R S T U V W
130-3 LUNA 0023 SAPO CARRO 122-9 8-18000-78 GATO SILLON 51-3 เจ
LL
33-1 COTORRA 109-18 802-3

CODS FOR XIDABERS:
1. 345-20. 2. 893-104 3. CANON -00 4. 657-6 5.00-21.50 6. ALCATRAZ
7. SICLON 8. 2000-17 9. 56-00 0.34-18
-
PUNTO ENTRE PALABRA Y PALABRA

Second Code to be used-they will use one code one day and the other the nexts
Same baud
Same frequency
Samo tich

Code's aane ruscom to indicate which code is being used
Agente - 13
Las Villas

The same code nase GUERRILLO will be used when transmitting
Δ. 124 Η PALOMA
B. PEZ
C. LUNA-LLENA
D. CALN
E. 172
F. BURRO
G. 840

L. 654
J. 33
Κ. 17-23
L. 43-4
. 180-9
R. 14-63

S CIELO
0. 810
P. 93.2
4. 51-33
R. 125
S. CAMPU
T. 340-5

U. 419
V. 000-4
४. 00-62
Χ. 6790
Y. PLAXO
Z. CALMAN

PUNTO ESTAK PALABRA Y PALABHA

SECRET
-2-
Places that they can deliver aras and equipment or other materialı
CATSAL - (ALACRAN)

ANGUILAS - (LUNA LLIDA)
ROQUE KEY - (LOCOMOTORA)
:
Code for sumberss
1. TIBURON 2. 963 3. 1,500 4. 10,000 5. CANON 6. JOSE 7. FIERRO
8. RATUN 9. MOTOR 0. 21

thenever making any phone calls they will use the following codes
LLAMAR A SKA, KARCO - SALADO A ISABSLA DE SACUA, LAS VILLAS DE PARTE DE JUAN ANTONIO
ORTECA EX HIAMI-AL HABLAR: RECUERDOS A NIVOS Y PADRE.

ASTOT HABLANDO - CAYO SAL
PLYPALDO - ROQUE KEY
RECIBI CARTAS TAL DIA - PARA RECOJE

SECRE!
