14-00000
104-10105-10271
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED IN NAL CONFICATIAL SECRET
ONLY
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM: Seymour R. Bolten EXTENSION NO. 7520
2 E 14 DATE 19 September 1974

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and DATE OFFICER'S COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
building) RECEIVED FORWARDED INITIALS to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)
1. Mr. John Morrison
OGC 7 D 01 9/19/74 1. Attached is an ad-
vance informal copy of our
proposed security deletions
and revisions of the Hunt
galley proof. Please note
that this list has not yet
been reviewed by Mr. Blee
and is, therefore, still
subject to change.
2. The DDO panel that
reviewed the Hunt manuscript
has designated items, numbered
12, 14, 19, 21, 24 and 25, as
"hard core," by which we mean
that the Agency should insist
on their deletion or revision
and be prepared to obtain an
injunction and engage in
litigation should Hunt refuse
to cooperate.

Sasvoive
Seymour R. Bolten
SAB/DDO

CIA HISTUIMICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

C10
:
FORM USE PREVIOUS SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL. UNCLASSIFIED
3-62 FORMS USE ONLY

14-00000
CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: Manuscript and Galley Proof of Undercover:
Memoirs of an American Agent by E. Howard Hunt

NOTES: A. Pages and lines underlined
and appearing at the begin-
ning of the items below
refer to the galley proof.

B. Corresponding page and line
listings as they appear in
the manuscript are provided
in brackets at the end of
each item.

3
member
1. Rage 57, line, 6 from bottom of page; the name "Henry
Pleasants Mr. Pleasants retired under cover and his past
relationship should not be exposed. It is also recommended
that efforts be made to have the name "John Richardson" also
removed from the same sentence containing Mr. (Pleasants name.
(Page 96, line 17.)

2. Page 59, line 38 beginning with "However" and ending
on page 60, line 2 with "milieu". Rutherford T. "Pinky" Walsh
retired under cover and his CIA relationship should not bald
exposed. His assignment in Paris under student cover/is
similarly classified. The description of this activity just
a couple of pages before the author gratuitously mentions the
advisene
lack of an agreement between the Agency and the French barring (DA)
unilateral operations in France) (Item 4 below) is potentially
an additionally damaging blow to liaison relationships. (Page
100, lines 10-14.)

2
CONFIDENTIAL
CII
5/mc

14-00000

3. Page 63, line 21; the name "Frank Holcomb"
Mr. Holcomb retired under cover and his past relationship
with the CIA should not be exposed. It is additionally
recommended that the entire paragraph wherein Mr. Holcomb's
name appears (lines 21-24) should be deleted because it ac-
knowledges CIA operations in support of anti-communist political
operations in Italy. (page 105, lines 18-21.)

4. Page 63, line 30 beginning with "By" and ending with V.A.
"arrangement" on line 33, page 63. It is recommended that this
passage be deleted since its inclusion not only is not pertinent
2Yto the narrative but it unnecessarily jars, liaison with the
British and is an implied insult to the French/liaison services.
(page 106, lines 4-7.)

5. Page 66 beginning with "Finis" on line 24 and ending
with "world" on line 27. This passage describes a specific CIA
operation which resulted in the production and distribution of
an animated cartoon based on George Orwell's Animal Farm.
(Page 111, lines 6-9.)

6. Page 68, the pseudonym "John F. Rittenhouse" on line 34.
The author's original CIA pseudonym was classified, and even
though compromised, never appeared in the press and still exists
on various currently classified documents. (page 114, line 23.)

7. Page 71, beginning with "Spanish" on line 28 and ending
with "America" on line 20, page 72, and including the footnotes
on pages 71 and 72. This passage should be deleted because it
describes the Agency's role in subsidizing, producing and dis-
24 tributing "El Campesino's" book, Life and Death in the USSR.
121 [lines 1-16,
(pages 120 (lines 4-20, including footnote]
including footnote.))

8. Page 72 beginning with "Eudocia" on line 21 and ending
with "Scribner's" on line 32. This should be deleted because
it describes the Agency's role in the translation, publishing 24
and distribution of Eudocio Ravines' book, The Yenan Way. It
also describes William Buckley's role in that operation as a
CIA officer. (Page 121, lines 17-23 and page 122, lines 1-6.)

9. Page 73 beginning with "Mexican" on line 5 through
"Rivera" on line 8. This should be deleted because it not only
describes sources and methods but also identifies a specific
CIA operation. (Page 122, lines 19-21 and page 123, line 1.)

2
012
4/mc

14-00000
CO FIDENTIAL
U.A.
10. Page 73 beginning with "Communism" on line 14 and
ending with "reputation" on line 15. This passage could serve
to identify a former asset in Mexico who is still living. (Page
123, lines 7-8.)

VA
11. Page 73 beginning with "cover" on line 17 through
"legend" on line 19. This should be deleted because it identifies.
a CIA-sponsored cover arrangement in Bangkok. Furthermore, thig
particular type of cover, the movie industry, has figured in
earlier unfavorable publicity to CIA in other Southeast Asian
countries and thus serves to further render suspect the use of
such cover in still other areas. (Page 123, lines 10-12.)

12. Page 73 beginning with "planned" on line 22 through
"authentic" on line 5 of page 74 and including the footnote on
page 74. This should be deleted because it describes a specific
operation involving the forgery of a page of the Shanghai Post,
and also includes descriptions of sources and methods. (Page 123,
lines 15-23 and all of page 124 including footnote.)

13. Page 77 beginning with "technical" on line 19 through
"station" on line 21. This should be deleted because it describes
and authenticates a CIA operation. (Page 131, lines 2-4.)

14. Page 80 beginning with "surreptitious-entry" on line 9
through "Embassy" on line 12, page 82. This should be deleted
because it describes a specific, sensitive operation as well aszy
sensitive sources and methods including the acquisition of code
materials). (Page 136, line 3 through page 139, line 20.)

15. Page 86 beginning with "Greek" on line 18 through
"countries" on line 20. This should be deleted because it
identifies a specific operation and the foreign assets involved
in its support. (Page 147, lines 6-8.)

16. Page 95 beginning with "quasi-military" on line 11
through "East" on line 16. This should be deleted because it
describes various cover and support facilities used in Far East
Asian countries. (Page 163, lines 6-11.)

17. Page 95 beginning with "Hong Kong" on line 16 through
"Branch" on line 19. This should be deleted because it describes
an operation conducted jointly with a liaison service in Hong
Kong targetted against mainland China and as such is not only
damaging to current American detente efforts but is particularly
menacing to Hong Kong authorities in view of their proximity and
susceptibility to potential Chinese retaliatory pressures.
163, lines 11-14.)
substitute
(Page

" HK we non no
ent preative
CONFIDEN Reprudent
3/mc
C13

14-00000.
Hatiyi
to hel
through
18. Page 99 beginning with "disrupting" on line 5
"display" on line 27 and including the footnote on page 99. zy
This passage describes specific CIA operations in Tokyo targetted
against China and as such are not only damaging to current detente
efforts but are also disruptive to liaison relationships with
the Japanese .7 (Page 169 line 23 through page 170, line 22,
including footnote.)
"returned" on line 10. This should be deleted because it deithas
CORE
19. Page 102 beginning with "Despite" on line through
a and CIA operation
カグ/materials. (Page 175, lines 10-15.)
20.
Page 105 beginning with "wiretap" on Mne 6 through cauti
20
"surreptitious-entry" on line 7. Ought to be deleted since it Lit
refers to sensitive Agency sources and methods. (Page 181,
lines 2-3.)
fict
repho
21. Page 108 beginning with "tap" on line 17 through
with various operational proposals, activities including a
recruitment of an identifiable individual, as well as with
sensitive methods of operation, e.g., surveillance teams.
(Page 187, lines 6-24 through page 188, lines 1-15.)
"Embassy" on line 7, page 109. This passage deals intermittently dif
22. Page 109 beginning with "FBI" on line 21 through
"station" on line 26. The "Ramirez" operation. Describes an
operation which began with the FBI's spotting of a possible
Soviet intelligence agent. Since this information was then
turned over to the Agency, a question arises/concerning the
need to seek the FBI's prior comments. (Page 189, lines 6-11.)

23. Page 111 beginning with "The" on line 22 through
"triumvirate" on line 23. It would seem that an effort ought
to be made to have this passage deleted of changed since its
damage potential to liaison relationships wit With the Uruguayan
services is considerable, and it does jeopardize the current
careers and livelihoods of the Agency's contacts. who are re-
ferred to by date and position and thus, are Mentifiable.
(Page 192, lines 21-22.)
2 958

24.
Page 115 beginning with "I" on line 23 through
"department" on line 35. This passage should be deleted
because it describes Agency methods of operation acquisi-
tion and passage of information to and from a liaison service
as well as an overall Agency program of operational activities zy
within Uruguay involving the monitoring of forty-two telephone
lines". Page 200, lines 6-18)
---
love
CONFIDENTIAL
4/c
:
14

14-00000
CONFIDENTIA..
25. Page 116 beginning with "technical" on line 10
NOT IN
through "secrets" on line 29. This passage should be deleted PITSSAGL
because it describes a sensitive operation conducted (jointly)
with a liaison (Uruguayan) service (which involved code materials materials
(Page 201, lines 12-23 and page 202, lines 1-9.)
24
26. Page 122 beginning with "The" on line 8 through
"Djilas" on line 9. This passage should be deleted because it
attests to the Agency's subsidization of publication/of Djilas'
book. In addition an effort ought to be made to have the author
remove or appropriately alter the rest of the paragraph wherein
he refers to an Agency news service located in "Washington's
National Press Building". (Page 211, line 4.)
27.
Page 122 beginning with "from" through "Gaines" on
line 31. It is recommended that OGC's attention be called to
interpretations. (Page 212, lines 4-5.)
this passage in order that they be made aware of its possible Lax CE
28.
16464
Page 123 beginning with "Soon" on line 12 through
"Madrid" on line 35. This passage deals with the author's work
on several "Peter Ward" books and, later, his assignment to
Madrid. It is recommended that OGC's/attention be called to
this passage. (Page 212, last line through page 213, lines 1-23.)

29. Page 126 beginning with "Chief" on last line through
"officers" on page 127, line 5. This passage should be deleted
because it specifies the classified activities of a CIA officer,
Roger Goiran 03, His assignments in Tehran and Brussels), as well
as his involvement in the compilation of a classified "encyclopedic
study" are unwarranted disclosures of Agency methods. (Page 219,
lines 8-13.)

30. Page 130 beginning with "Free" on line 20 through "CIA"
on line 21. This phrase should be deleted because it could serve
to affect the life of one of the principals of the Free Cuba
Committee, Mrs. Marieda Bourgin, gin, a former witting contact, who
is now employed by the State Department. (Page 225, lines 10-11.)

31. Page 150, all of lines 14 through 16. It would appear
that this description of the author's contact with Dr. Barney
Malloy of CIA is very unfair to the latter. It implies that
Hunt had a special relationship with Dr. Malloy and an effort
ought to be made by OGC to have the author rewrite this version
in order to reflect Dr. Malloy's true role in this affair.
Page 260, lines 22-23 through page 261, lines 1-2.)
CONFIDENTIAL
3
BR
C15

14-00000-
(
CONFIDENTIAC
---
i.e., a
32. Page 220, lines 5 through 10. This passage concern-
ing the use of CIA alias documentation by Hunt and others in-
cludes loose language which implies that still another set of
documents was prepared by the CIA for Hunt's use
set of documents which was not mentioned during the recent
Congressional "Watergate hearings". As such this is misleading
and could serve to create additional difficulties for the Agency.
It is recommended that the OGC make an effort to have the author
rewrite this paragraph in order that this potentially damaging
language be removed from his manuscript. (Page 387, lines 4-9.)

alled "old"
to description of
Locuments.
6
CONFIDENTIA
016
