104-10183-102612 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Re

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
INFORMATION PROHIBITED
SECRET

DIR CITE SALV 5312
DYVOUR PERUMEN AXMUG
30SEP SLIN 84511
REFS A. SALV 533 (IN83009)*
B. DIR 53322

1. LANGOSCH AND AMMLUC 1, ONCE EACH ALONE ANE ANE ONCE TOGETHER SAY JUMAVE 1
MORNING A SEPTEMBER JAVE 1 TOOK SAVE POSITION AS PARA SA DENIED KNOWING ANUG DESPITE CASE OFFICER RELATIONSHIP, REFUSED DISCUSS
ANYTHING ABOUT CUBAN INTEL, AND DECCED FOR RELEASE AND EXILE TO START
LIFE ANEW.

2. ΟΞΤΑΙΝΙΝG TRUTH FROM JUNAVE I WILL BE TINE CONSUMING. HE FULLY
AWARE PROOFS AGAINST HIM BUT PROBABLY HOPES POLITICAL PRESSURE WILL FORCE
PELFASE AND PROBABLY FEARS ADMISSION OF HIS COMPLICITY WILL NOT HELP
HIM. SALV COVT MUST CONVINCE HIM HE WRONG ON BOTH COUNTS. HE OF
DURIOUS VALUE INSOFAR AS CONTRIBUTING NEW INFO ABOUT PAST ACTIVITIES
CF CUBAN INTEL OR PCES BUT OF CONSIDERABLE INTEFEST AS AGENT IF HE
CAN BE TARGETTED AGAINST CURAN INTEL OR POES. IF RELEASED WOULD BE
DEFINITE OBSTACLE TO FURTHER OPS AGAINST MINUS TACTS. IF HE SHOULD
DOUBLED, HIS IMPRISONMENT WOULD COVER RECRUITMENT AND WOULD TEND TO
ENHANCE HIS VALUE: PROBABLY WOULD BE HOST USEFUL OUTSIDE SIL
INCLUDING MEXI AND CUBA.

SECRET

3182

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET IN PAGE

3. AS ARE STANE MOST IMPORT TO PROTECT COSELY
HAVE D AND OF THAT PROMISE. TRUS OP COALD BE INVESTED ADVERSELY
BY SPREAD OF NEUS ACCUT AMUS EFFORTS ON PEHALF OF KITA TO EFFECT
RECRUITNENTS. CECAUSE OF VALUE OF JAVE 2 PREFER FOR FRESE PRESENT NOT
TO PROCEED ACAINST OTHERS WHO RECEIVED INTEL TRAINING, AFTER LAVE
IS PRODUCING AND AFTER PRUDENT INTERVAL KUTAK CAN PROOFED "ITH
RECRUITMENT EFFOR ACAINST OTHERS EITHER UNILATERALLY OR WITH LIAISON
DEPENDING ON DEVELOPMENTS.

4. PROCEEDING WITH ARREST OF CUERFILLEROS TO INED IN CUBA PROBABLY
YOULD BE PENEFICIAL AS LONG AS NOT ATTRIBUTED TO AS. IN ADDITION
TO BENEFITS OF CA PLAY, SOME OF THOSE DETAINED HIGHT 33.DOUBLED
AND TARGETTED AGAINST GUERRILLA COUPE CR PORT.

5. APPRECIATE PEF E TO WHIC!! "ILL REPLY AFTER DISCUSSING FIATHER
PROSPECTS AND GOVT INTENTIONS WITH JUHILLI AND POSSIBLY PRESIDENT
SECTET

*FililliLAI AGNE
"
5514 WHEN LAUSC

SECRET

यद्वार
