104-10171-10003 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

FROM: Chief, Task Force W
TO: Chief of Station, JMWAVE
SUBJECT: Operatlona 'GYROSE/KUDESK/KUWOLF7PÅ

G-2 Penetration Action Against AMSPELL Organization and "Other Groups" in PBRUMEN
ACTION REQUIRED: FYI

References:

A. WAVE-3286, 14 January 1963
B. UFGA-7027, 28 December 1962 (RYBAT)
C. UNGA-7038, 20 December 1962
D. UFGA-7247, 12 January 1963 (RYBAT)
E. UFGA-7322, 17 January 1963
F. MEXI-2829, 13 December 1962

1. On 4 January 1963 AMHINT-27 met with QUANTUM-51 in New York City, and QUANTUM-50 advised him that Jorge MEDINA Bringuier, the Secretary General of AMSPELL in PBRUMEN, Is a G-2 agent. MEDINA and AEDO (fn), who was said by QUANTUM-50 to be on the AMSPELL National Executiyo; were actually G-2 penetrations. They planned to "roll up" the eptiro AMSPELL organization and "other groups" in one sweep and then escape by boat and contact AMRINT-53 in the JMWAVE area. MEDINA was in contact with AMBINT-53 while in PORUMEN and planned to use AMHINT-53 to establish his bona fides with KUBARK.

2. QUANTUM-51 further advised that another mission of the two G-2 agents, MEDINA and AEDO, was to make contact with Iden A to dete etermine what role it played in anti-CASTRO activities. . The secretary of QUANTUM-50 had been a very close personal friend of AEDO'ssi 's since childhood and AEDO feared she would be implica icated, -0. so he told her or of his espionago mission. She informed QUANTUM-51 and then arranged a meeting between QUANTUM-51 and AEDO. ALDO told QUANTUM-51 of his mission and arrangements were then mado to get all the AMSPELL leaders into asylum in the Uruguayan Embassy. On or about 10 December 1962 about 25 persons, including AEDO, went into asylum.

3. QUANTUM-51 further said that AEDO reportedly was arrested by. G-2 a long time ago and then recruited to work for the PBRUMEN Government.

Distribution: C/TFW watts

Attachments:
A. IDEX 011-5-1
B. Misc. material

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

4. Reference C is a chronological summary of AMBINT-33's activities subsequent to his infiltration in PBKUMEN, and his contacts with Chelin, the brother of ANFRET-7. AMFRET-7's arrest was reported in Reference B. The AMFRET-7 Case Officer states that both AMFRET-7 and his brother were arrested, after shooting S88- it out with G-2 and being wounded. As noted in Reference D, AMFRET-7's arrest was made after QUANTUM-55 and Blanca MARTINEZ de Hoya, aka "Cuca," aka "Cuchi, brought MEDINA, AMSPELL's National Military Coordinator for Reception and Supply, to Iden A where MEDINA recognized AMHINT-33. AMHINT-33 said MEDINA was an old friend of his and had lived near him.

5. AMIINT-33 said further that his brother knows MEDINA, that MEDINA is the man whom AMHINT-33 used in 1961 to check up on REBELLON (Inu), the FEU Secretary General in PBRUMEN. AMHINT-33 added in his S/W Nessage 11 of 10 December 1962 that "his friends" are still in jail.

6. Reference E transmitted a letter written by AMHINT-33 on 29 December 1962 in which he states that G-2 infiltration is so great that he considers it impossible to organize anything, and he indicates that some of the agents, as in this case, have been infil- trated for more than two years. He presumably means infiltrated into anti-CASTRO organizations and/or activities.

7. Relative to the "other groups" mentioned in para. 1 above, AMHINT-33's Case Officer believes that AMHINT-33 is probably referring to the MRR, the MRP, the MDC and the 30th of November groups. The "friends" mentioned in Para. 5 may be one Eduardo BRINGAS, who is about 23 years of age, one GOUMI (nu), and others previously referred to but not identified by AMHINT-33; they may have worked for AMHINT-33.

8. JMWAVE traces on the individuals involved in this plot offer little concrete information.

a. It is noted that Jorge MEDINA Bringuier is listed on Page 13 of Attachment C to UFGA-4977 as an MRR member, with a listed aka of Carlos PRADO. JMWAVE tracing identifies one Carlos PRADO as "a brother of Raul, the head of G-2 in Las Villas Province," as reported in HAVA-6437, 5 October 1960; there is no further informa tion on this Carlos PRADO. However, the original source of the inform ation given in Attachment C of UFGA-1977 was a letter brought out of PBRUMEN by AMSTRUT-1 about early July 1962. Said letter contained a $25 money order, issued at Station No. 9, New Orleans, on 16 March 1962, for Jorge MEDINA. Bringuier and purchased by Maria Teresa MEDINA. The envelope, addressed to Sra. Consuelo. C. de RIVAS in Mexico City, bore the notation, "For Carlos PRADO," and contained a note, "This money order for $25 is for Carlos PRADO from his mother," in addition to the money order. There is one Carlos PRADO in Mexico. He is studying engineering and is the brother of Fausting PRADO Garcia, an engineer who works close to "Che" GUEVARA and is of current KUTUBE interest Faustino PRADO is married to Clara ARTIME, A sister of Josefina ARTIME, who is a close friend of AMGLEN-9, and she is also of current KUTUBE interest When AMSTRUT-2, who could have given this letter to AMSTRUT-1 to take out of PBRUMEN, was in Mexico City she called Carlos PRADO by telephone at 249769 and told him that she was a friend of his mother. This PRADO family is a large one, and includes another brother, Angel, who is in Spain, a sister who is a nun in Italy, and another brother who is a doctor in New York City. Additional data could be secured on this family from AMSTRUT-2 if desired. However, it seems probable that this money order may have been sold in Cuba by Jorge MEDINA and purchased, sooner or later, by the mother of the Carlos PRADO who is currently a student in Mexico. A copy of the material carried out by AMSTRUT-1 is being forwarded herewith. It will be noted that a part of the attachment was disseminated as UFG-1239, 13 July 1962.

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

b. It is further noted that JMWAVE files show one "Mongo" listed on Page 14 of Attachment C to UEGA-4977 as captured and sentenced to 30 years in prison. This information came. from UFG-779, 12 January 1962, which was based on an ANCUTLER-1 intercept of a report from the MRR Acting Internal Coordinator in PBRUMEN to Hipolito LAZARO, the MRR Internal Coordinator temporarily in PBPRIME, sent via the Argentine Diplomatic Pouch. There was no further identification of this "Mongo." 24

c. It is noted that Reference F identifies Jorge HAEDO as a former anti-Castrista who was tortured and doubled by the PBRUMEN Government; HAEDO appears to be the correct spelling.

d. "Cuca" or "Cuchi" MARTINEZ, who has held the position of AMSPELL National Coordinator for Civil Resistance, is a personal friend of AMCOG-3 and family. She is believed to have taken asylum in the Mexican Embassy. SW Nessage 12 from AMCOG-3, dated 8 December 1962 and received 12 December, reported that QUANTUM-51 01 advised "Cuca" to hide or be cautious because MEDINA had turned out to bo a G-2 member. The message said that this was learned from AMSPELL prisoners and that, during interrogation, they were asked many questions about "Cuca" and AMOOG-2.

9. When the AMHINT-53 security review mentioned in Reference A is received, additional investigation as necessary will be made at JMWAVE.

END OF DISPATCH

Cader Separate Cover Attachment to UFGA-7383, 22 January 1963

IDEN A
11,10
Spanish Embassy in PBRUMEN.

Attachment & UREA-7383

ENVELOPE
Fils

Consuolocad
Xicotencalt #84
Coyoacan
Xo:doo, D.r.
(for Carlos PRADO)

This money order for $25.00 is for Carlos PRADO from his mother.

Le copy of money order for $25.00 for Jorge Haru Dringulor tron Harta Teresa

Miss Yarlo Antonia LOP
2) sv 11th Avo.
Kia:1, Na.

First page cissing

I ca going to place the communication abroad in Sofi's handa; no ona battor. hat I nood is that you explain to us botter how to make the contact from here over this, that is, how and where to ace SARARIA, the contact which you said you had with Soft Inova ala but doesn't know whoro she can see him. Roncabor that Soft is clready being checked because Esteban's vifo knows her and asked about her. I en going to try to have the treasurer be a friend of Sofi's who knows whore the money is. 15 a fully trustworthy boy called Alejandro.

711 Dr. LALAGS that I don't write to him about the affair because it is castor formsto write to you, but that he and this boy should havo rolations, and I with Call and vith, you.

Le cive the support to LAZAGA together with the Excoutiw, because it would bo xible to only one porson, and for the case it was lost in our hands. You soo that the accutivo over there is fully answerable to us and that way thoro vill be no problems.

We don't know anything about my nomosake. So far all the contacts have falled. Let's so what vo can clarify.

Toll Towns that the nows I sont hin about Dos Mos was through a contact which I male with our brother-in-lav D. He is willing to work and has people in his area, and also in the coast. I bollova that a lot can be done up thors. Dosides, Sto Lift to a terrific contact also at that coast, han vo have to put in contact with D

Tell Tanas to let no work also in that area, which is mine and of my people, and that 18 ho gives authorization that vo can send a guerrilla band to work with the calo. Cf course, this guerrilla chosen by us to avoid thoir sending pooplo of them cad have then take comand away from us. You know how that is.

its to our other brother-in-law in the cabassy and find out when he loves because I now that he is already leaving but to cons back to me immediately. Let's 2 18 he leaves, takes a fast training, and cones back. Have thon got much rap recting and nea to nan combat with bayonots which is very good at night and no one now anything about that.

You t נסplain the thing a bit to boto so that he will gain onthusiasm. If כ css that the thing is serious and has real support he will come. The only thing that ha noods support for his family. Explain everything to hin and I think ho will caza. Eo Icaves tonorrow and I gave hin your phone. If he noods money for his

vifo and for himself give it to him from aino. I authorized dia to ask you for it. If they would lot as, in our provinco I would placo dor 5 guerrilles vita the contacts which I had before and have now, and we would fill that up for these people, that is, we would start a var in all the provinco, plains and overything.

Well, this lotter is going with safe hands to Kiant where it will bo nailed, tomorrow. Co the S.W. which I sont vill arrive lator if I can't got it taken with this ons because I already gave it to have it mailed. Let's see if vo can got it back in tias to have it arrivo soon.

I will write to Boba and Northa Elona another day with calm, and I don't have the details of your lotters on hande

Regarda to all and you receive love from your brothor, Kamolo

chulad do Sa Jahana, a los 30 dias del tes de Junte do 1952, dos los fategrantes del CUTTO NACIOTAL COL 2040 PROCESIC...), señores RICOPERTO C

Senator Freional Civil y JOSE ANTONIO AGRANITE, Coordinadorio altar, so pracodid a discutir y llegar a los acuerdos que

Cac debido a la situación actual por la que atraviesa n To movimiento, la situngen general del pife, hope c ...do variar la clamauración del mismo, cuidando c to de la manera siguientes iente: A) Un Coordinador Nacional Civil En Coordinador cienal Militar, defendo sin erst todas las cateriores Secretarias y dodas denominaciones.

dogance darlo plona autonomía en cuanto a su funcionante vece seriore, a las Coordinaciones Civil y liter, funci mando por lo tanto cada wa por separado.

Carlo pieno apoyo y reconocimiento como DELEGADO GENERAL on el exilio da costco movi:Lento, al Dr. JOSE IGACIO LAZAR caro al Ejecutivo por of nombrado, con la autorización de la anterior Coordinaci Nacional.

Con movivo del acuerdo en ca cuanto a in autencuia on el metamiento de les Coordinaciones mcionales se bot De, acordance acepter la Jorarquia en el sendo del jocu Teen pieno de nuestro Kerimiento en el oxilio, cucciondo honor la salvodad de que les 'ondenos ezanadas de dicho cutivo, sefa erosteadas a la medida do nuestros cercos vurrrido ca.consideracila que por estar nosotros on Fe verio Eccional conocemos mujor la realidad de la situasie por que atravezazos.

I nestanete so firma la presento por 103 מפיססס RIGORO SAS Y JOSE ANTONIO AGREMONTE exclusivamente, detido a encontrarse el 20 do 100 ntegrantes de la anterior CCORDETACION NACIONAL 03 ps de solar HELLO, OX-COORMADOR 45 RESISTENCIA CIVICA, quo so asawatre acilado.

Ars Cosiciels C. de Rivai
Xicsteucalt84
Coyoacou
Mikico. D. F

Ente Money Order for $2500 ali in porn.
Coils Prodes de frontie biecy cromá

Urta. Juaria Antonia Leójney
8.27 5.10. 11 Th Ave.
Ariami, Pla

comunicación al exterior de wij a mifer que ells. to qui te the decias timer de sam bios fui yo graceite سر محمد Parabia como hacerlo de aqui para alla, & die be molo a el. Pofi lo cource, fiero no sabe dovés Limitlire que a Sifi ya la están chequrando fouis Dr in Chiban la conoce y preguntó pregunto forella. for El tissers way on Theater que sia une amigo de Sifi fiue sabe donde este Tida confianza Mandi

Diske al Dr. Bajaga que me le escrito sobre el partiar es far-pirgin a ti más fácil, pero que este chy chyl son los que deben buer relaciones, y nhu con Ellille y contigo El apoyo si lo damos a Bagaga funto con el Ejian Etos porque a ima sola persona seria imposible & ftate el cass de difaba en musestras manos. Ilds. prraren jur I ajecutivo an eva reefonda plenamente a noso no habrá problemas.

Dzui tocayo no sabemos nada, todos los contactor i bian fallads basta ahora. Vaniis a ver que ficamos Listi a Tomás que la noticia de Dos Miez que diemuan

Dias la de muni gente y que si el dá autorización den afridi vendar sua querilla a trabajar com queriilla que lo en su 212 The way a ser que aus gute ameri if it quite la fifatura, tu sabes como 21 2 Givilele a mestro otro cuñado en la embajaday vivigiia a ver orando sale purt yo se za que el vá to fara solver conmigo enseguida. a ver si sale yor en training rapido y vuelve. Clue cojan munchie lictura de mapes y lucha enerpo a everfio con The Juue eso es mir esa buena de noche y aqui nadie.

a bisto le tiences que explicar la cosa un poco jese die cisa ecbulls, siel sigel vé que es tevia la cora y verdadero respaldo el viene, to unico que igual que Payo recesita ajuda familiar, aclárale todo qui que el viève. Mañana sale I of le le dé de tie tie teléfono, Le Mass falta dinero para la señora y para els dans all mis, yo lo autorize a pedirtelo.

Si me desager en muisera prow. yo metia & o 5 qui que yo teria antes y ahora, yile penis aquillo a esta quite, o sea le matianich guis

Con tha pues lo di aya para que lo remyera a tiempo para que llegue pronto  Ellille yll son, que ista si en mi warta Elena lis contisto potro dia con calma