14-00000

104-10188-10015
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UTIL OF ASSAS TEATIONS STAFE SALUCES

1. THIS DOCUMENT 15 CH
2. RETURN THIS DOC
RM GA-50, ON CEVOLI: KDAFGHAN VOL. I.
3. IF YOU FORM SUPPORT
INDIVIDUAL 50-6-122/1

VE DATES: 25 SexT - 14 MAR FY
PORM
179 TAL UNIT/LOCATION: LAD 10.00
ROOM: Bent
DELETIONS, IF ANY:

PROJECT
KDAFGHAN
VOLUME I
SECTION SUPPORT

--
"
DATIE DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED
REVIEWED BY
(PRINT NAME)
24/78 5/26/78 DA HARDWAY.
5 July 78
21 JUL
12/20/78
O HAR
SIGNATURE OF
REVIENING OFFICIAL
Dam Handwany
Dain
HARDWAY way
HARDWAY
HARDWAY
Berk
Hardpany
Handuray
rot
کے
NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.
761
Ider 2
A-122/2
RETIRED FILE
DESENSITIZER
14-00000
FORM
2-65
2593
CONFIDENTIAL
NOTICE

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT

ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS

DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER

TO RID/RPU GE-58.

NOTICE

CONFIDENTIAL

(7-13)
14-00000
FROM: (Headquarters component)
10
1
10.
IP/AN
: (Station/Base)
MEXICO CITY

SECRET
WHEN PILLED INI
SUBJECT AND PROJECT FILE REQUEST
AND FIELD NOTIFICATION OF ACTION

FROM: (Division)

COMPLETE ITEMS I THROUGH 12
INFORMATION FOR REQUESTERS

ITEM 10-ENTER OLD. TITLE WHEN AMI.NDING A TITLE. CITE
ANY FILLES, SUCH AS 201 OR PROJECT FILES THAT ARE RE-
LATED TO THE FILE COVERED BY THIS REQUEST. III.M 10 MAY
ALSO BE USED TO GIVE REASONS FOR THE ACTION HEING HE
QUESTED, TO IDENTIFY THE TYPE OF MATERIAL 10 BE PLACED
IN A FILE ON TO MAKE OTHER FXPLANATORY REMAHK.S.

ITEM 3-ALL FILE TITLES MUST OF STERILE SINCE THLY WILL
APPLAR ON THE FIELD COPIES AND ON MACHINE LISTS

JIEM 6-ALL REMARKS MUST DE STERILE.

IIIM 7 AND 8-USE FIRST THREE LETTERS OF DISPATCH SYM-
DOLS FOR FIELD STATIONS AND LIST HEADQUANTIHS ILE.
MINTS ACCORDING TO ESTABLISHED NUMERIC CODES
SUBJECT
ITEM 11-A HECOHOS OFFICER MUST SIGN ALL FILE ACTION HE
QUESTS. CONSULT YOUR RMOON ANY PROBLEMS THAT ARISE.
INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE
TYPE OF FILE
%
PROJECT
2
COUNTHY NUMBLA
20
FILE TITLE (SPECIFIC SUBJECT (PROJECTS LIMITED TO 15 SPACESI
CODE (FILE) NUMBER
CATEGORY NUMBE
6
ISPECIFIC SUNILCT NUMBER
122/2

KDAFGHAN Support
OPLN FILE
AMENO FILE TITLE
ACTION REQUIRED
ANALYSIS ACTION
CLOSE FILE INDICATE DEPODON
OFOPEN
5.
X
DISPOSITION
RETAIN
IP/ARD

6. REMARKS IFOR FIELD DISTRIBUTIONI

DESTRUCTION FRECOMMENOLO
INRU IDATED

7 INTERESTED STATIONS PROJECTS ONLY)
12:44

HOLD IN
CS FILES
RESTRICTED
O INTERESTED HEADQUARTERS DESK LIST ACTION DESK FIRSTI
FILES ACTION
UNRESTRICTED
X
10. COMMENTS INCLUDE SPECIAL HEADQUARTERS ROUTING INSTRUCTIONSI
PREPARE FOLDER AND
SEND TO REQUESTER
CHARGE PERMANENTLY TO
OFFICER & PESKI

11.
ENDORSEMENT
12.
COORDINATION
SIGNATURE OF BRANCH/DESK R. Ο.

Geria former #630
EFFECTIVE DATE
ORM
-63
I March 1973
812
OBSOLETE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
MFG 12-65
SIGNATUGE OF BHANCH/DESA Я. О.
WHEN APPLICABLEI
50
SECRET
50
13.
RID APPROVAL
REQUEST APPROVED BY

Koliastes M. Conner
CODE (FILE NUMBER
06
39
122/2
1-CS COPY
14-00000.
>
)
KOAFGAN
FORMER CRYPTONYM LIONION
CRYPTONYM CHANGE AUTHORIZED BY ARMSTRONG
S-E-C-R-E-T
DATE OF CRYPTONYM CHANGE
20/04/71
COMPONENT - PIOVAN
(RO OR RID SECTION CHIEF)
CABLE OR DOCUVENT REFERENCE (FROM ITEM 10 OF FORM 312) - HAMS-7138
)
)
?
)
N-O-T-1-C-5
THIS IS AN RID NOTICE OF A CHANGE IN FILE
TITLE CRYPTONYM CAUCED BY COMPROMISE. IT
IS TO BE PLACED IN THE FILE INDICATED AND
TO REMAIN THEREIN AS A PERMANENT OFFICIAL
CS RECORD.
>
S--C---T
FILE IN 050-006-22/02
14-00000

BLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION ASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
ROUTING AND OR INITIALS SEEN B
PRONTUTANT NOTIFIED
SECRET
GROUP 1
5
וויה
2
6
When Filled In)
てもこしんいちくかにも
3
7
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
4
8
DISSEM
AT
Z
28
PER
NO
FILE. VR
18/PN WH8. JDP. FI
ACTION UNIT
TSD-FO
ACTION NO

SECRET 141955Z MAR 72 CITE MEXICO CITY 19236
DIRTECH INFO PANTECH, DIRECTOR
AQUATIC KDAFGHAN KDFACTOR
REF A.
ΗΜΙΑ-41502
B. PANTECH 18798 (1559398)
1.
PLS PROCURE TWO 1000 MM CATADIOPTRIC LENSES
WITH CAMERAS AS REQUESTED REF A.
2. FOR PANTECH: NOT NECESSARY PROCURE SPOTMATICS
UNLESS ADVISED DIFFERENTLY BY DIRTECH. GP-1.
SECRET
560483

SECRET
David
14-00000

SLC
10
Chief,
SPICE
NO.
Chief,
Division; Chief, WOMCAD
CUNMED PER
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
1638
Chief of Station, Mexico City
ACUSTIC APQUAN IDFACTOR
PARTS OFILM
ACTION RICO
Reference: ESXICO CITY 15654
3. Two of the Station photographie cerations, KOFACTOR and
have baca asia, the eh and
Salecoce and kia
cauera ecebinačica for soni: toly tree years.
dese tw
operation provide valedao phoomic cover t
targets and new equipment is required to prove che photographie
quality and increase the capability for isrger coverage during the
day when light conditions are boer.

2. The Dalscope in the DANCHAN-] CP bac a 15. eyepiece cud
is located in a very scall room. A fuil tomgth toge telephoto
lens of 1000 in vill not fit into the space sithost taking out a
concrete wall partition.
Terefore a compact catadioptric lens
is required fer tito project.

3. The Dalocope in the P-20P should also be replaced
0
by the same type of lens systea rentioned paraph 2.
Balscope now is use is operated from the top of a table where
MOTACTOR-2 must also stand to cake pictures over a high wall in the
foreground. The system must be removed from the table when now in
use sad stored in a locked foor locker. Ter these reasons the lens
and camera should be light and cerpact to facilitate their use and
storage.
:
As can be seen from paragraphs two and three a light weight
compact lens system is desired for both projects and the Station
:
Distribution:
2-CAMKSPICE
2 C/MOACRE
!
2007DE
ES COPY
CROGS NEUFLUKE 10 :
DIATON STEEN ANDER
DATT
MA-43,502
CLADERATION
SECRET
-continued

13 January 1972
50-6-18
14-00000
:
CONTION OF
:
So anxious to repisce the off anfis. The operators are starting to
Cab the walls after Naor year of
Palucope. A verbal art is baca..ceed to
F
Noobtin
to 1000 mm cotadicetrie oprical systems with Fort formatic
camoras. Please autre sur les acts can be coralnes and the
corting procedures. A has started the action on at least
one of these systems through KGSPICE.
!
Charles F. DIEN
14-00000

10
DISPATCH
Chief, WOARE
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
INFO. Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
FROM
Chief, MKSPICE
Chief of Station, Mexico City
SUBIECT AQUATIC/KDAFGHAN
Ronewal of Passports for KDAFGHAN-1 and KDAFGHAN-2
ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES
2531
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM

Reference: ΗΜΜΜ-17955, 11 June 1970

The WOACRE-issued Cuban passports for Subjects have expired.
It is requested that new passports be prepared for them. According
to KDAFGIIAN-1, the new passports should carry the same numbers as
the old passports. The passports, and current photographs of
Subjects, are being forwarded under separate cover. It is
requested that the old passports be returned.

Senior
Elsie I. SCALETTI
Attachment:
As stated u/s/c
Distribution:
Orig. & 1 Chief, WOACRE (w/att. u/s/c)
CROSS REFERENCE TO
1 Chief, WHD (w/o/att) ..
1 Chief, MKSPICE (w/o/att)

50-6-122/2
"7 January 1972
201-305604
FFNSP-7,094
no rapy
!
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HMMA
DATE
41480
MOS FILE NUMBER
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
14-00000
1.
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION ASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
(When Filled In)
GROUP I
στις
2
3
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTEO
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY FROHIBITED
DISSEM DV
ACTION UNIT
15
PEA
2
FILE, VR
WHE
L065 4
ACTION NO
125
SECRET 0918562 NOV 71 CITE MEXICO CITY 18173
DIRECTOR
ADMIN LOGS KDAFGHAN
ROUMADOOR INITIALS-SEEN BY
4
9 Νου ΙΝ 465588
:
۱۰ REQUEST OBTAIN AND POUCH TO STATION ON PRIORITY
BASIS FOR KDAFGHAN ONE EACH: APRON, CLOTH, F/WW
PAKONOMY PRINT DRYER MODEL 13-S.N.-5932.
CORPORATION, MINNEAPOLIS 40, MINN.
2. REQN 559-19-72 APPLIES.
GP-1
MFR: PAKO
SECRET

SECRET
Dirticle has wurmesed
ht
14-00000
PERSON UN NORTO
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
BLOTTED
DISSEM
AT
PER
SECRET
(When Filled in)
GROUP!
ENCLUDED RCM auc
Car to tratゾ16
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
5
6
3
7
8
ACTION UNIT
ISDE-00
ACTION NO.
NO
FITE. VR IP/AN WH & DDP FI
SECRET2117207 OCTRICITE MEXICO CITY 18614 (ROSTEDT ACTING)
DIRTECH INFO DIRECTOR, PANTECH
AQUATIC/KDAFGHAN
2:Ост 1.451868
1. KDAFGHAN-1 HAS FOR YEARS USED BALSCOPE LENS
WITH 20 X EYEPIECE FOR ID PHOTOGRAPHY OF VISITORS AND
EMPLOYEES ENTERING KDACOUSTIC. TO IMPROVE QUALITY
PHOTOGRAPHY AND INCREASE CAPABILITY DURING EVENING
HOURS WHEN LIGHTING POOR STATION PREFERS A PHOTOGRAPHICALLY
CORRECTED 1000 MM TELEPHOTE LENS FOR PROJECT. PLS ADVISE
AVAILABILITY OF ABOVE LENS FROM WOACRE STOCK. IF PROJECT
TO DE CHARGED FOR LENS NOTIFY STAΓΙΟΝ.
2. MKSPICE DOES NOT HAVE THIS TYPE LENS IN STOCK GP-1.
SECRET

per file im
KDAFGHルル- Support サフェ
26
SECRET
Dosis
⑥
14-00000

CABLE SECHLTARIAT DISSEMINATION CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
DY:
CISSIM DY
ATL
a
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
Caben Filled
3
PNCHIDITCO
FOUTING AND OR INITIALS OPEN P
ACTION UN:
VR
1753 FILE, V / 28, 2010/12
ACTIOY NO.
123
SECRET 222053Z OCT 70 CITE MEXICO CITY 4653
DIRTECH INFO PANTECH, DIRECTOR
RYBAT AQUATIC
REF: DIRTECH 0:31 (11189977)
22.0AT IN 1910.5.7
M
1. FOLLOWING IS A LIST OF EQUIPMENT USED IN PROJECTS
CONE EACH OF ITEMS LISTED):
A. LILYRIC:
TELESCOPE, BALSCOPE BAUSCH AND LOMB.;
CANERA, SP, NN, EXAKTA W/O LENS;
CAMERA, PENTAX NEL H3V;
BICAL LAI
TELESCOPE, SHE, BAUSCH AND LOMB., BALSCOPE;
CAMERA, SP, 35, EXAKTA, WO/LENS;
C. LIONION:
BINOCULARS, 10250, TASCO, JAP MDL;
TELESCOE, BAUSCH AND LOMB BAL SCOPE SR.;
CAMERA, PENTAX 35 MM;
DRIER, PHOTO PAKONOMY NDL 13.;
ENLARGER, LEITZ WETZLER FOCOMAT IC;
MOTOROLA HANDIE-TALKIE FM RADIOPHONE;

D
Wheelh
SECRET
FILE: LIONION SUP
14-00000

CABLE SECRETAPIAT DISSEMINATION
ADVANCE COPY
ISUたい
C1110"S
CLASSIFICO MESSAGE
SECRET
(When Filled In)
TOTAL COPIES
CROUP
REPHODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITEC
ΘΥ:
PEA
ACTION UNIT
ACTION NO.
FILE, VR
2
ROUTING ANDIGA INITIALS SLLH
8

PAGE 2 MEXICO CITY 4653 SECRET
MOTOROLA RADIOPHONE;
CAMERA, RETINA;
LENS, RETINA 501M;
LENS, RETINA 35MM;
LENS, RETNA 801.
50-6-32/2.
2. FILE: FRATAEWZWM GP-1
SECRET

SECRET
14-00000
DISPATCH
СПАЛКАТON
SECRET
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR.INDLENG
tn
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
XXX
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
FROM
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE IEDEXXONG
SUBJECT
MICROFILM
Acting Chief of Station, Mexico City
Transmittal of Document Receipt for LIONION Passports
ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES
Reference: 11MMN 17955, 11 June 1970.
Forwarded under separate cover is the document receipt
for the LIONION passports.

for/Horace E. PRALLETT

Attachment:
loatt
CROSS REFERENCE TO
document receipt (u/s/c) 27 July 1970
Distribution:
Orig. and 2
Chief, WILD (w/att, u/s/c)

CS COPY
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
ΗΜΜΑ
DATE
39115
26 June 1970
HOS FILE NUMBER
50-6-122/2
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
14-00000
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
10
Chief, Western Kemisphere Division
INJO.
FROCESSING ACTION
MARVED FOR INDEXING
XX
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
FROM
SUBJECT
Chief of Station, Mexico City
MICROFILM
PBRUMEN LIONTON TECHS/Request for Renewal of PBRUMEN Passports
for LIONION-1 and LIONION-2
ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES
Action Required: Renew passports and return
Reference
.:
Η ΜΑΓΑ 13,672, 3 June 1965
:
1. Forwarded under separate cover in true name pouch are
the WOACRE PBRUMEN passports for LIONION-1 and LIONION-2, issued
by Reference. These passports have expired, and the Station
understands that they can be renewed for another period. Due to
the sensitivity of the LIONION operation, Subjects cannot obtain
regular PBRUMEN documentation locally, and must have them in order
to leave México and return.
..
2. It is requested that WOACRE revalidate the passports
and return them to the Station for re-issuance to Subjects.

Anbudsent
for/John A. PROBERT

Distribution:
Orig. and 2
Chief, WHD USC..
140
CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
CATE
ΗΜΜΑ
38843
27 April 1970
CLASSIFICATION
HOS FILE NUMBER
SECRET
50-6-122/2
14-00000
נה
২১
DISPATCH
SECRET
X
Cief of Station, Hexico City
Chief of Station, JMWAVS
ier, Western Hemisphere Division
LIONION/Impulse Camera Fila
ALSION FOUREIFERICES
Action Required: See below
Beferences:
A.
B.
C.
HMMA-33841, 17 January-1968
UFGT-21267, 12 February 1968
UFGT-21342, 22 February 1968
FROCESSING ACTION
MARKIO FOR MIN
NO INDEXING ROU
ONLY
CAN JUDGE INDELING
MICROFILM
1. In view of references A and Band the small cost involved
in operating the impulse camera Headquarters will continue to pro-
cess this film.
3. Request JMWAVE pouch the film cited in reference C to
Beadquarters for processing.
Distribution:
Crig. & 1 - COS, Mexico City
1 - COS, JMWAVE
Ronald L. PERRODIN
CROSS REFEREING D
RI
CEΞONO
CO COPI
فاف
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
OFFICE
WH/1
HHMW-16194
CLASSIFICAT
SECRET
OFFICE SYMBOL
WH/COG
50-6-122/2
DATE
1 March 1968
S FILE MUSABER
נוקיה
50-6-122/2
ORIGINAING
D
COORDINATING
DATE
rc
6954
OFFICER'S NAME
3/5/68 and 2 oberst
:
ANTW
ABSTRACT
FORM
201
WH/1
pix
53
152IOUS EDITION.
OFFICE STMBOL
CWH/1
DATE
1 Mar 68
1601
RREASING
OFFALER'S SNAP:21
J. Kaufman
DISPATCH
14-00000
い
AUDIT Repert
November 1963, anggonealed that are inmati
gsted.
The current bus
been taken on this after
Accomendaviont
diesiogeness or as an
determine whether FREAPAND CHE WAFER for 1003
1 compen profits,
AOR FEBAPAK
resulta of the loveatigories:
SALEGOUSE Lent in Excess of Leace NO
:
- amongst MINO 2020 160 2.
was cated in 1962.400 vier month vera sevmento
4663 1 0 5
SEDA De ces to the ses ved as the gas
Recommendation.
the acord showdog 001
ROSE
approved as the rosef of station en alder d
Staston officia.
Revision or mucation sticence Re
of Agourts Paid
Education silowances for textce CLEY Fevined for
Poco prades during the current avere Station
sequered or section Desses regulara
necommendation:
:
allowances paid for
Proceeds of Property Sare hot necoreed an
Pinance Recorde
:
Co our review of propers saceae,
Swetances (Vouchere ردة كا اللا
SECRET
14-00000
SECRET
Culef of Station, Kexico City
Attn: Walter W. CORNBURY
Chlef of Station, Panama City

Chief, FOACRE
AQUATIC/LIONION
Technical Information
Reference:
DAMA 31767 dated 11 April 1967
1. LIONION 1 photographic results continue to be satisfactory
for all concerned. It is therefore advisable that no changes in
proceduro be made at this time.
2. It is apparent that LIONION I releyed the incorrect devel-
oping formula for the pulso camera fils. Perhaps this error is due to
bis inactivity in processing such film for over a year. Since the
conception of this operation all pulse camera film has been developed
in Microdol X. On the other hand, Tri X film used in the LIONION 2
operation (Pentax camera and, Balscope) has traditionally been devel-
oped in Acufine.

3. All pulse camera film is processed at leadquarters by an
automatic Huston system. Time and temperature information which the
lab uses would be of little value to your development procedure.
results of your recent test indicate that it should be satisfactory
for an occasional check on the equipment.
The

4. The difference between Plus X Negative and Plus X Faa fila
is worth only one half "f" stop, which should cause no problem if you
decide to use the latter.

Distribution:
2-C0S/Mexico City
1 COS/Panama City

Group 1 Excluded from
automatic downgrading
and declassification
Albert J. LASCOFF

KANS 5358

SECRET
70-6-12213
35 April 196,Spor

TSD/POB
RWM
ery
2378

1
A
TSD/Reg
WH/1
1

1
FU/2
1
TSD/TOPS
WH/1
25 Apr
Mr. Stewart by phone x6955
2
POB files

WH/2
10
Mr. Hidalgo
"
x5421

TSD/TOPS
"
Mr. Roming in draft

TSD/COP
QUENTIN C. JOINSON
14-00000
olic. Polly Pike,emo
Wll/Logistics
6282
ا المعنى
24 April 1967
CABLE SECRETARIA DISSEMINATION
24
WH-8
MISSAGE FO
TOTAL COPIES
20
SECRET
-YLOR
10
LEDEX
DESTROY
PETUEN TO.
BLANCI
PILS RIO
NO INOX
コ PILE IN CE PILS NO.
10
(classideonra
SECRET
File MEXICO CITY
LIONION
RID COPY
DEPON
FILE
Support
toute and sune Bled
5.1901'2
REFERENCE: MEXICO CITY 0912 (IN 34374)*
LOGS 4, TSD-6
1mber
CITE DIRECTOR 89630
7
WHICH IS
Ipire
ר
PX PAN-417 FILM ASA 125 CAN BE USED BY CLOSING DONN CAMERA LENS ONE
HALF F-STOP SMALLER OPENING. ALTERATION TO HOSY PROCESSING NOT NECESSARY.
REQNX 559-59-67 WILL FURNISH ASA 80, PXN-417 A NON-STOCKED FILM. FYI,
STOCK NUMBER 6750-H03-0513 IS FOR PX PAN-417 ASA 125. DO NOT RE-ORDER
PXN-417 FILM BY THIS STOCK NUMBER.
END OF MESSAGE

WH/COMMENT:
Cektor
WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WILD
RELEASING OFFICES
LIONION Pulse Camera has been using PXN-417 film ASA 80,
but supply just received is PX Pan 417 ASA 125.

Telecoord:
TSD/POB, Dick Thayer

OL/SD/CCDB, Catherine Van Combos
NH/1

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
GROUP 1
Eastated from astamatle
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
50-6-122
le

R.L. KING
C/WH/LOG
2
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
COPY NO
14-00000
INDERI YES NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
CLASSIFIED HESSAGE
21
POPAL COPIES
1.ALF TO FILE NO,
FILE RIDO RET. TO DRANCHO
SECRET
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
PESTROV SIG.
PERSOM/UNIF NOTIFICO
:
ACFTON
254
WH &
INFO
7
ADVANCE COPY
UNIT
TIME
BY
RID COPY
31 NAIR 67034374
FILE UR TSDG, HUGS4,
SECROL CELE MAI 111 0912
DIRECTOR.
LIONION TECHS
REF A MEXICO CITY 0681 (IN 21452)
BRON NO 559-59-67
LIONION PULSE CAMERA HAS BEEN USING PXN-417 FILM
ASA84. SUPPLY JUST RECEIVED IS PX PAN 417 ASA 125. IF
LATTER USED WITH SAME SETTING IN LIONION CAN HQS COMPENSATE
IN DEVELOPMENT? IF NOT PLEASE MONITOR REF (B) AND EXPEDITE
SHIPMENT OF PROPER FILM.
SECRET
BT
SECRET
:
NNNN
14-00000

DISPATCH
TO
Chief, WOACRE
LAF Q.
FROM
ASSI ACATAM
SECRET
Attn: Geoffrey K. BLOXALD
Chief, WH; COS, Panama City (Clement BROCK)
Chief of Station, Mexico City
SUBJECT
AQUATIC/LIONION Pulse Camera
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
XX
PROCESSING ACTION
NO INDUNG
CAN IN
AL
MICORD

Action: See paragraph 5.

1. The LIONION Pulse Camera has been working for well over a
year with no major technical problem. A few months ago the 100 foot
film magazine had to be repaired because the supply spindles had
tightened and put an excessive strain on the motor.

2.
More recently, the battery supply had dropped to about
22.5 volts or so causing erratic operation. The sensor relay between
the VLS-2 and the camera suffered the most because of chattering and
consequently arcing between the points..

3. To prevent failures of this type in the future, Raymond L.
BARCENAS is making a small battery charger at a nominal cost that
can be floated across the batteries keeping them fully charged.
We are doing it this way rather than ordering a DC power supply
because it is less expensive than a commercial model and will not
be bothered by house current interruptions or fluctuations.
however, WOACRE/PB foresees any problems by doing it this way, please
inform us.
If

4. On a recent visit to LIONION and a check of the equipment,
it was found that the lens of his FOCOMAT IC enlarger has a fungus
like smudge between the elements. We cannot detect any degradation
in print quality but would like to have a new one in case this is a
fungus and it gets worse.

5.
In summation it is requested that WOACRE/PB provide the
following to Mexico City, charge 7135-2403.

a. Sensor Relay believed to be a Potter-Bromfield 5A5089
but please check;

b. Comments on the power supply;
Lens for a Leitz FOCOMAT IC.
c.

Distribution: wel!
CROSS REFERENCE TO
WOACRE
- Panama
WH
walter
:
Sit AmMS-5277-20
CS COPY Willard C. CURTIS
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
ΗΜΜΑ-31294
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
DATE

50-62
7 February 1967
HOS FILE NUMSER
50-6-122/2
7
14-00000

10
INFO.
FROM
DISPATCH
Chief, KUR IOT
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
Attn: Peter T. SWINEHART
Chief, WH Division

Chief of Station, Mexico City
AQUATIC/PBRUMEN/LION ION
SUBJECT
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
Reference: MEX1-3960
X
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM
Transmittal of 35mm Pulse Camera

1. The attachment contains the defective 35mm Pulse Camera
previously reported in referenced cable. Very little additional
information can be supplied, concerning this mechanical fallure,
other than that reported in the reference. This particular camera
was installed on 16 June 1965 and operated normally from that date
until the afternoon of 28 June, at which time It began to continually
blow fuses. Hugh T. FRANCOTTE entered the LIONION photographic
basehouse that night, and when it was found that the problem could
not be corrected on the scene, the camera was removed and taken to
MKCHARITY for further troubleshooting. It was finally discovered
that the shutter motor was malfunctioning and partially burned-out.
Joseph M. RESCIGNO stated that since there was a definite "short"
in the motor, this would cause the camera fuses to constantly blow.

2. Also Included in the attachment are two (2), one hundred
foot capacity, film magazines. Both of these magazines are faulty,
causing the film to jam. They were both in use with the previous
Pulse Camera which became inoperative during late May and was
forwarded to KURIOT Headquarters for repair. FRANCOTTE had two (2)
new magazines in stock, and they were issued to LIONION/1 for use
with the camera presently being returned for repair or replacement.

Attachment:
Camera
Film magazines

Distribution....
2
KURIOT, w/atts
✓ WH, w/o atts
CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

Willard C. CURTIS
CS COPY FILED IN 50-6-18

DATE
HMMA-26520
1 July 1965
CLASSIFICATION
HOS FILE NUMBER
SECRET
50-6-18
14-00000

DISPATCH
SECRET
COS, Mexico City ATTN: Hugh T. FRANCUTTE
and ATTN: Lawrence F. BARTER
PROCESSING ACTION
X

Chick KURIOT
Χουλτιο
Passports for LIONION -1 and 2. Case 5670, 5670-A
ACTION REQUIRED NUTRIENCES
ACTION REQUIRED: Paras 2, 3
ة
OTEL QUALIFIED CREA
CAR ADUS IR
PRIORITY

REF: HMMA-26017, 4 May 1965

1. New passports were issued for LIONION -1 and for LIONION -2 in
accordance with your request. These documents as well as the 2 old pass-
porta are being sent to you in true name pouch.

2. The documents have a validity period of 5 years from date of issue;
however, please return them to KURIOT after the passports have served their
purpose. Please sign one copy of the document receipt form accompanying
the documents.

3. When the LIONIONS -1 and 2 have received their immigration papers,
please try to send the original documents to KURIOT for a brief examination.
If they cannot be seat, KURIOT would like to have color-annotated photo-
copies of them,

ATTACHMENT: I envl
1. Documeats, U/S/C/T/N/P

DISTRIBUTION;
3
- COS, Mexico City, w/att

LEON T. CISSEL
CAGES REPRAENCE TO

19-137-415
27 May 1965
:
1-TSD/REG
2. WH/1
1- Case 5670
1- Case 5670-A
1-AP/4 Files
1 AB/4 Chrono
✓RID/AN

ABSTRACT،
WH/

Ercivert tam hazin
dacizosilicates
DISTATOM STADEL AND M
OFFICE
HMMW-13,672 PRIORITY
CLASSIFICATΙΩΗ
SECRET
50-6-122/2
DATE
HOS FILE HER
506122/2
ORIGINATING
TYPIST
OFFICER
TSD/AB/4 Wesley Parcells

OFFICE SYMER
DATE
WHLI

OFFICE SYM
C/TSD/OA
CATE
COORDINATING
OFFICER'S NAME
DT
3284
