104-10180-10218 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/43
ATTENTION : George Hleovas
SUBJECT : Cover for AMIRE/1
이

30 October 1961

이
1. Pursuant to your requirement for status coxer for AMTRE/1, the following devised cover has been developed. AMERE/1 will be employed as of 1 November 1961, by Roberts Electronic and Engineering 24 Service. Ja devised cover firm engaged in providing consulting services in the field of electronics and electrical instruments. His immediate position will be that of consultant assigned to the Southeastern part of the United States. This cover was selected in view or AMIRE/1's past employment where he represented various electrical suppliers.01
24
08
-6770)
2. Roberts Electronic and Engineering Service is located at
4010 Glengle Avenue, Baltimore 15. Maryland, telephone (Rogers
This is a fully backstopped cover device which will list AMIRE/1 as one of its employees thereby furnishing a credit and employment reference for him. His payments will be made to him by bank transfer as in the pest.
اه
3. It should be pointed out to AMIRE/1 that he will receive
24a U. S. Treasury form 1099 at the end of each taxable year, showing
4. Roberts as his source of income. Therefore, it is incumbent on AMIRE/1 to File an overt tax return listing himself as an independent contractor with Roberts, thereby explaining why taxes were not withheld.
24.
4. You are requested to advise CCG when this cover arrangement is no longer needed, so that proper backstopping can be effected.

JOHN G. SOUTHARD
C/CCG/NC

... 201-274049)
8

G
