14-00000

104-10229-10002	2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
 
VOL VII-CRC

1968
BUDGET
FINANCE
FOLDER 4
RETIRED FILE
DESENSITIZED
per ESA 43-43
RETURN TO RECORDS C
IMMEDIATELY AFTERLI
VOL 2 BOX 2
407154
___

14-00000

FORM 2593

CONFIDENTIAL

NOTICE

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED.  DO NOT
ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS 
DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER
TO IP/RPU GE-58.

NOTICE

CONFIDENTIAL
(1-13)

14-00000

Unit:  NGratz:f1
EXT.: WH/COG/SA
NGratz:f1
DATE: 19 August 1968

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES

25

ROUTING AND/OR INTIALS SEEN ST

S-E-C-R-E-T

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
INDEX
DESTROY
RETURN TO
BRANCH
FILE BID

NO INDEX
INFO:
FILE IN CS FILE NO 19-124-25/65
PILE
rid copy
ve  TRI/AN, WH 8, OGC 2, D04
(classification)
SECRET

to
JMWAVE INFO: JMCOBRA
TYPIC  AMBUD

(date and time filed)
(at)
(reference number)

CITE DIRECTOR

19 0002 AUG 68	257.1.2

1. PER DISCUSSION WITH MARTHA B. DRANGELIS HOS RECOMMENDS
MANUEL (REYES) GARCIA (CASE NO. 122) AND ANGEL (PASTRANA) SANTOS
(CASE NO. 118) TRUST ACCOUNTS ALSO BE TERMINATED.

2. REQUEST BALANCES ON DEPOSIT BE T/A'D HOS FOR TRANSFER
TO MHMUTUAL ACCOUNT.

END OF MESSAGE
01

ABY
L

Wmisa
R.
Paul Eberst
William V. Broe
C/WHD

RELEASING OFFICER
OGC/MHMUTUAL	D. Fielder (telecon)
19-124-25/65

WH/B&F Ellitte Ceva 12 AUG 1968

WH/COG/SA
CS COPY
David A. Phillips
C/WH/COG

AUTHENTICATING
OFFICES

GROUP I
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
desigssification

COORDINATING OFFICERS
S-E-C-R-E-T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
___

14-00000

UNIT:
OPICS.  N. GRATZjgh
EXT: WH/COG/SA
4163
DATE: 30 JULY 1968

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY
BRANCH
FILE ND

INDEX
DESTROY
FILE MALE NO. 19-124-25/65

INFO rid copy ve. WH8, CI/OA KILEN Jelitel

TO: JMWAVE INFO JMCOBRA

TYPIC  AMBUD
date and time fled)

CITE DIRECTOR

31 16 432 JUL 68	2 0867
REF: UFCT-22352*
CONCUR PAYMENT PLAN PROPOSED PARA 3 REF.

END OF MESSAGE

WH/COG Comment: *Dependent mother dead Brigader advised AMTIKI
of arrival U.S. and requested money held in
trust. Monthly amount has also been paid to
account of dependent father whom mother advises
has been dead since February 1962. JMWAVE
proposes. pay mother $13,125 (75 months at
$175 per month) and turn over remaining
$780.57 in account ($50 per month deposited
for father plus 6 years accrued interest)
to JMWAVE Finance Officer.

CS COPY

WILLIAM V. BROE 12 July.1968
C/WHD
David A. Phillips
C/WH/COG

AZLEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
GROUP 1
Lacladde from automatie
downgrading and
desigsausties

AUTHENTH.ATING
OFFICEE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
OPEN!

14-00000

DISP NO
DATE
7C
FROM
SUBJ
ET TELEPOUCH
- UFGT 22352
29 JULY 1968
- CHIEF, :: DIVISION
- ACT ING CHIEF OF STATION, JMWAVE
- ARRIVAL IN U.S. OF BRIGADE DEPENDENT FROM CUBA
AND SETTLEMENT OF TRUSTEE ACCOUNT.
ACTION REQUIRED - REQUEST CABLE CONCURRENCE OF JAVAVE's
PLAN IN PARA 3.
1. MRS. CLARA MOLINA CABRERA ARRIVED IN THE UNITED
STATES FROM CUBAN AND CONTACTED AMT IKI-1 BY LETTER DATED 2
JUNE 1968. MRS. MOLINA IS THE MOTHER OF MARIABO SANTOS
MOLINA, KILLED DURING THE BAY OF PIGS INVASION. THE HISTORY
OF THIS CASE IS AS FOLLOWS.
A.. MARIANO DESIGNATED HIS MOTHER AND FATHER, BOTH
IN CUBA AS HIS DEPENDENT SO MARIANO ALSO DESIGNATED CARLOS
FERNANDEZ CAMPOS AS HIS TRUSTEE TO HANDLE ALL MOVIES FOR HIS
DEPENDENTS.
B. AMIIKI-I'S RECORDS SHOW THAT CARLOS FERNANDEZ
CAMPOS VAS PAID AT THE RATE OF $225.00 PER MONTH FROM APRIL
1961 TO APRIL 1962. ACCORDING TO THE RECORD, ALL PAYMENTS
TO CARLOS FERNANDEZ CAMPOS CEASED AT THAT TIME BECAUSE "CARLOS
FERNANDEZ DID NOT ACCOUNT IN A SATISFACTORY MANNER FOR THE
HONEY RECEIVED." AMT IXI-1 OPENED A SAVINGS ACCOUNT IN THE
COCONUT GROVE BANK IN MAY 1962 IN THE NAME OF MARIANO SANTOS
AND/OR JUAN SANTOS (THE FATHER) WITH HIMSELF AS TRUSTEEM
DEPOSITS OF $225.00 PER MONTH WERE MADE TO THIS ACCOUNT FROM MAY
1962 UNT IL SEPTEMBER 1966 WHEN ALL DEPOSITS TO TRUSTEE ACCOUNT S
WERE ORDERED STOPPED BY JMWAVE. TOTAL PAYMENT TO THIS ACCOUNT WAS
$11,925.00 AND WITH THE EARNED INTEREST OF $1,928.57 THE ACCOUNT
PALLANCE AS OF JULY 23, 1968 WAS $13,905.57.
SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGT-22352 PAGE ONE

Exclude:

14-00000

S
L

C
RET TELEPOUCH UF GT 22352 PAGE TWO
C. THE FIRST INFORMATION RECEIVED THAT MARIANO'S
MOTHER MIGHT ARRIVE IN THE IINITED STATES HAS COPY CA
LETTER DATED 14 SEPTEMBER 1967 AND SENT TO MARIANO'S BROTHER
RENE SATOS FROM J.A. MORALES, THE PRESIDENT OF THE 2586
ASSAULT BRIGADE ASSOCIATION. RENE SANTOS LIVES IN HACKENSACK,
N.J. THIS LETTER ACKNOWLEDGED RECEIPT OF A LETTER FROM RENE
REQUEST ING THAT ALL CHECKS FOR HIS NOTHER, CLARA MOLINA,
NOW BEING SENT TO CARLOS FERNANDEZ CAMPOS BE SUSPENDED AND
THAT HIS NOTHER WOULD "WITHIN SEVERAL MONTHS" BE ARRIVING
IN THE UNITED STATES. MORALES LETTER ADVISED RENE TO WRITE
TO THE ANTIKI-I ADDRESS, WHICH HE PROVIDED AND MAKE THE SAME
REQUEST. HE FURTHER ADVISED RENE THAT HE SHOULD PROVIDE THE
AMT IKI-1 ADDRESS ADD IT IONAL BIO DATA ON MARIANO AND HIS MOT HER
AND FATHER.

D. ANT IKI-1 RECEIVED A LETTER DATED 19 SEPTEMBER
1967 FROM RENE SANTOS STATING WHO HE WAS AND THAT HIS MOTHER
CLARA MOLINA WOULD WITHIN SEVERAL MONTHS". BE ARRIVING IN
THE UNITED STATES VIA SPAIN. ENCLOSED WITH THE LETTER WAS A
COPY OF MORALES LETTER (C ABOVE), MARIANO'S BIRTH CERT IF ICAT E
AND PICTURE.
E. ANTIKI-I REPLIED AT JMWAVE'S REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGING
RECIEPT OF RENE'S LETTER AND ENCLOSURES AND ADVISED RENE THAT
PAYMENTS TO THE TRUSTEE, CARLOS FERNANDEZ CAMPOS, HAD BEEN
TERMINATED (NO DATE GIVEN) AND THAT MRS. CLARA MOLINA CABRERA
SHOULD NOT IFY HIS OFFICE BY MAIL UPON HER ARRIVAL IN THE U.S.
F. AMT IKI-I RECEIVED A LETTER FROM MRS. CLARA MOLINA
CABRERA DATED 2 JUNE 1968 STAT ING THAT SHE WAS NOW IN THE
U.S. AND DESIRES TO DISCUSS MARIANOS CASE.
G. AMT IKI-1 REPLIED ASKING MRS. CLARA MOLINA TO
FORWARD ANY DOCUMENTS THAT SHE MIGHT HAVE TO IDENTIFY HER AS
THE MOTHER OF MARIANO SANTOS MOLINA. MRS. MOLINA REPLIED IN
A LETTER DATED 4 JULY 1968 ENCLOSING HER BIRTH CERTIFICATE,
SECRE I TELEPOUCH UFGT 22352 PAGE TWO
E

14-00000

R
ET TELEPOUCH UFGT 22352 PAGE THREE
PHOTOGRAPH AND PASSPORT NUMBER. MRS. MOLINA ALSO INFORMED
AMT IKI-I THAT HER HUSBAND AND THE FATHER OF MARIANO SANTOS
MOLINA HAD DIED 25 FEBRUARY 1962.
2. AMI IKI-1 ON 23 JULY 1968 COMPLETED A BREAKDOWN OF
THE ACCOUNT SHOWING THE AMOUNT IN THE BANK WHICH IS SHOUN
IN PARAGRAPH I B ABOVE, THE AMOUNT PAID TO THE ORIGINAL TRUSTEE
WHICH IS $2,925.00 AND THE AMOUNT DUE MRS. CLARA MOLINA.
SINCE MRS. MOLINA'S HUSBAND DIED PRIOR TO AMT IKI-1 TAKING
OVER AS TRUSTEE, THE PAYMENTS DURING AMT IKI-I'S TRUSTEESHIP
SHOULD HAVE BEEN AT THE RATE OF $175.00 PER MONTH INSTEAD OF
THE $225.08. MAY 1962 THROUGH JULY 1968 (75 MONTHS) AT
$175.00 PER MONTH AMOUNTS TO $ 13,125.00 AND AS NOTED IN
PARAGRAPH I B ABOVE THE ACCOUNT CONTAINS $13,985.57.
3. JMWAVE PLANS TO HAVE AMT IKI-1 WITHDRAW THIS ACCOUNT
AND PURCHASE A CASHIER'S CHECK FOR MRS. MOLINA FOR THE TOTAL
AMOUNT DUE ($13,125.00) AND PASS THE BALANCE OF $780.57.TO
THE JMWAVE FINANCE OFFICER. FOLLOWING THIS AND BEGINNING
WITH THE AUGUST 1968 PAYMENT AMIKI-I WILL FORWARD A CHECK
FOR $175.00 EACH MONTH TO MRS. CLARA MOLINA IN THE SAME
MANNER AS OTHER BRIGADE DEPENDENTS. JMWAVE PLANS TO HAVE
ANT IK 1-1 PROVIDE MRS. MOLINA WITH THE NAME OF THE OR IG INAL
TRUSTEE AND THE AMOUNT PAID TO HIM WITH REGRETS THAT HE CANNOT
ASSIST HER IN THIS MATTER. WE ALSO PALN TO HAVE ANT IX-1
EXPLAIN THE METHOD OF COMPUTING THE $13,125.00 TOTAL ($175.00
PER MONTH FOR 75 MONTHS). WE DO NOT PLAN TO RAISE THE PO INT
OF EARNED INTEREST. WE BELIEVE THAT WOFIRM WOULD HAVE
COMPLETELY FULFILLED ITS OBLIGATION TO MRS. MOLINA BY THE
ABOVE PAYMENT PLUS HER MONTHLY PAYMENTS TO FOLLOW. PLEASE
CONCUR IN THIS PARAGRAPH BY CABLE.
FREDERICK J. INGHURST
SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGT-22352 PAGE THREE

..:
S

.:

S
:
14-00000

C
RET TELEPOUCH UFGI -22352 PAGE FOUR
DISTRIBUTION
VIA TELEPOUCH
1- CHIEF/VHD
1
- M/COG
SECRE I TELEPOUCH UFGT-22352 PAGE FOUR
BT

☑
ب
..
a

14-00000

OPIC: IVITI
UNITI:
EXTI:  ACOG/SA
4163/1325
DATE. 12 JULY 68

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES.
29

SECRET
20
81
24
CONF: WilffeG-8

SECRET

INDEX
DESTROY
NO. INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.
RID COPY
INFO

PILE. VE
②GC-2 RI/AN, MPS/BG-2, CCS-2, CSP
Ing
12.16 162 JUL 68	CITE DIRECTOR (15727

to JIMAVE INFO JMCOBRA

TYPIC AMBUD MHMUTUAL
REP: JMWAVE 3051 (IN 47521)*

PROPOSED GERRITY TRIP TEMPORARILY DELAYED. WILL ADVISE
FIRM DATE.

2
WH/COG Comment: *Re proposed trip Mr. Marvin Evans to
JMWAVE
to review AMTIKI records of AMBUD dependency
cases.

END OF MESSAGE

OGC Mr. Morrisey (telecon)

William V. Broe
C/WHD
COORDINATING OFF Cras

SECRET
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICES

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 15 C

こい:
د..
___

14-00000
9.00
CAST.
SECRET 1015022 JUL 68 CITE JMWAVE 3051
CITE DIRECTOR (47521
DIRECTOR
TYPIC AMBUD MHMUTUAL

REFERENCE: DIRECTOR 14684
SUGGEST ANGUS L. GERRITY TRAVEL AT HIS CONVENIENCE
ANY TIME WEEK OF 15 JULY.  PLEASE ADVISE ARRIVAL TIME
AND IF GERRITY WISHES TO BE MET.

SECRET
BT

(Whem Filled in)
TOTAL COMES
GROUP !
ECLUDED PROT
DECLASIPI
A.AITING AND/OR INITIALIN HY
ISSUED
INDER
AT
A..P.T. 70 FILL N.
FILE RIF  RE  TO
SECRET

:
:
:

:
WHA, RE/AN, OGC, HOS/003, cess,

10 JUL 68IN
11.2
14-00000
OPIQ : N. GRATZ
UNIT:
EXT: WH/COG/SA
4163/1325
DATE: 9 JULY 68

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPІГ
26
OPS
OS

SECRET
Τιν
TC.
ss
INDEX
RETURN TO.
BRANCH
FILEID

DESTROY
RETUCOD TO.
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS PILE NO.

CLASSIFICATION

CONFI
PER
WH/COL8
RID COPY

JMWAVE INFO JMCOBRA
PILE ve  SA COGREG
WH8, RF/AMOUC 2,
(date and time kied)
(ireference number
NANCYE
CITE DIRECTOR
Spiram
felitel
REQUEST ADVISE PRIORITY MOST CONVENIENT DATE FOR ANGUS L.

09 18 552 JUL 68	14684
TYPIC AMBUD MHMUTUAL

Habe wree

GERRITY TRAVEL JMWAVE FOR CONFERENCE WITH FREDERICK L. INGHURST RE

REVIEW ANTIKI FILES. IN VIEW. INGHURST IMMINENT DEPARTURE FROM
STATION GERRITY SUGGESTS CONFERENCE BE ARRANGED ASAP.

END OF MESSAGE

Faul Eoberst
WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD

RELEASING OFFICER
WH/COG/SA  Mr. Ortman (draft)
OGC---Mr. Morrissey (telecon)
COORDINATING OFFICERS
GROUP 1
DAVID A. PHILLIPS
C/WH/COG
AUTHENTICATING
UIKES
de lessstheaires
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSJING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
:
2

14-00000
1.0.
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
SOUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISETINA
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFTED
SECRET
(hen Filled in)
14. WAD
TIN
GROUP I
FED FROM A AUTOMARIC
DECLASSIFICATIO
REPRODUCTIC OF THE COMPHIBITED
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
CLOTTED
INDER
CLASIFY TO FILE ND.
R-EF TO FILE NO.
-
FILS
T. TO
WHIRES CICA, MPS/BET
3.12
10
DISSEY BY
ACTION
WH/COG COPY 1110101111110101
SECRET 2421622 JUN 8 CITE JMWAVE 2912  24 Ju:3719
PIKRECT
2R
TPIC AMBUD AITIKI
CEFERENCE: DIRECTOR 10280 APSTRACT
IMORS -
LAST ANTIXI MONTHLY ALCUATING FORHARD VIA T/ 17879

JPICOM FLIGHT 6/25/68.
SECRET
BT

E-T
10-1225
SECRET
* 24 1968

14-00000

ORIG: Gras:f11
UNIT: WH/COG/OPS
EXT:  R-1325
DATEL 21 June 1968

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
ROUTIDO AND/OR INITIALE STEN OF

MESSAGE ME
TOTAL COM

S-E-C-R-2-E-1 21
10
-
DESTROY
BRANCH. FILE ID
Tu
INDEX
. FILE NO. 1:0 CS
CONTI
RID COPY  INFO

FILE ve
WH8,86,2
(date and time fied)

(elite)
(reference number)
G.
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
!71748)
SECRET
TO T
JHVAVE

(pica)
CME CIRECTOR
21 20 162 Jux 58	101200
TYPIC AMBUD ANTIKI

COPY LAST ANTIKI MONTHLY ACCOUNTING URGENTLY REQUIRED
FOR PROJECT OUTLINE. PLEASE FORWARD IN NEXT JHPIGEON POUCH.
END OF MESSAGE

Oberst
an V. Broe
C/WED

RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS

Faulk Bent
David A. Phillips
ME/COG/OPS
S-E-C-R-E-T

CHOUFT
Exluded feen eutamatie
greing end
dostionsies
==

14-00000

SECRET TELEPOUCH
DISP NO- UFGW-7076

FILE NO- 19-124-25/6
DATE - 27 MAY 1968

TO CHIEF OF STATION, JMWAVE

I070 - NONE

FROM - CHIEF, WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION

SUEJ - CTYPIC/AMBUD/MHMUTUAL AMBUD DEPENDENCY PAYMENTS

ACTION - SEE BELOW
REFS - DIR-00211
1. MHMUTUAL HAS AGREED TO TAKE OVER ADMINISTRATION.
OF THE AMBUD BENEFITS CASES. HOWEVER, PEELING DECISIONS
RELATIVE TO THE NUMBER OF CASES THAT SUBSEQUENTLY WILL BE
TURBED OVER TO BEC, HEADQUARTERS FEELS THERE SHOULD BE NO
CHARGE IN THE PRESENT METHOD OF PAYMENTS /VIA ΑΜΤΙΚΙ/.

2. IN VIEW OF THE PROBABILITY THAT BEGOTIATIONS
WITH BEC WILL NOT BE CONCLUDED BEFORE I JULY 1968, THE
JAJAVE FINANCE OFFICER SHOULD CONTINUE TO FUND THE AMBUD
PAYMENTS THROUGH AMTIKI DURING THIS INTERIM PERIOD, FY
1969 FUNDS WILL BE MADE AVAILABLE FOR AS LONG AS
REQUIRED.

3. THIS MATTER HAS BEEN DISCUSSED WITH AND
CONCURRED IN BY COS, JMCOBRA. PLEASE PASS A COPY OF THIS
MESSAGE TO JMCOBRA.
..ELLEN F. MARGANY

DISTRIBUTION /BY TAPE/
3-COS, JMWAVE

CS COPY

Originated by: Nancye Gratz
Courcinated by: OGC/MINUTUAL (Mr. Block) (telecon)
Released by: C/lt/COG  Paul-Oberst

Distribution:
1. C/WH/COG
2. Wit/COG/OPS
3. Originator
4. WI/COG/ESEC

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGW-7076 PAGE I
طلب
KB
WHC/CP

19-124-25/6

14-00000
11.74
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

(When Filled in)
TOTAL COPIES 300
WH/COG/OPS

/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

GROUP !
3067
3

ARUCTIC OF THE CHILEE
DEUTARIS 004912301
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTEO
VES
NO
10
DNEY TO PILU PO.
19-12-25/6
DISSEM BY
ACTION
FILE AND DREY TO ICE BRANCH
INFO: PEN

CID COPY
VR. WH OGC2, MPS/BG Z, DDP

DOQUE

ADDP, OSPC,

SECRET 2014252 2014252 MAY CO. LITE JMWAVE 2440

DIRECTOR 20 MAY 68 IN 14464
AMBUD HMUTUAL

AMFI

REFERENCE: DIRECTOR 22211
PS DEST

FORWARDED VIA T/M 276343 JMPIGEON FLIGHT 21 MAY IS LIST
ABSTRACT Y
EX
OF AMBUD DEPENDENCY CASES, INCLUDING AMOUNTS PAID, MAILING
ADDRESSES, AND NAMES OF TAUSTEES, REQUESTED IN REF.

SECRET

BT

SECRET
19-124-25/6
20 marl 1968

14-00000

ΤΟ
INFO
FROM
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING

X
NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESA
CAN HIDGE INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED

FROM Chief of Station, JMWAVET

SUBJECT  TYPIC/AMBUD  

REPIY
Transmittal of Documentation - Dependency Case #3

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

REFERENCE: UFGW-7040, 29 April 1968

Raymond K. PANUSES
As requested in reference, attached are the birth
certificates and the marriage certificate relating to AMBUD
Dependency Case #3, Bonito BLANCO Cruz (201-233944).

Attachments:
As stated above, h/w
Distribution:
3 - WH/COG w/atts

ΜΑΥ 15 1968

CROSS REFERENCE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER DATE

UFGT-21898 10 May 1968
MOS FILE NUMBER

CLASSIFICAT CA
SECRET 19-124-25/6
___

14-00000

NANC YE GRATZ:jaf
UNITI.:  EXT!
WH/COG/EXO
7447

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COMES: 
29

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS
OPS A+IOS
CATE. 15 MAY 68
SECRET
-124-276

EW Tic

PP
SS

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

DY
46

CONF!
TO
PER:
IMPO
RID COPY
PILE
DESTRO Y
FILE IN CS FILE NO
KR SA COG RES
VR  
WAH, 68, DEC D, PS/BE3 DDP
Iate on time Filed

reference ben
(CIE DIRECTORD 00211 
11 23 41 2
WHIOG B

(classification)
SECRET

JMWAVE

AMBUD MHMUTUAL

1. HQS PROPOSES TURNOVER ADMINISTRATION AMBUD CASES.

TO MHMUTUAL IN NEAR FUTURE, IN ORDER ESTABLISH PAYMENT
MECHANISM JMWAVE IS REQUESTED HAVE ANTIKI PREPARE LIST
DEPENDENTS PRESENTLY PAID, AMOUNTS PAID, AND CURRENT:

MAILING ADDRESSES FOR CHECKS. NAMES OF TRUSTEES SHOULD
ALSO BE INDICATED WHERE APPLICABLE, THIS INFO URGENTLY
*REQUIRED.

2. ABOVE INFO FOR JMWAVE ONLY. WHEN PROCEDURES. PRO-

-
POSED MHMUTUAL HANDLING COMPLETED VILL BE ADVISED. RECOMMEND-
JMWAVE
ATIONS FOR BRIEFING ANTIKI ON CHANGE WILL ALSO BE MADE.

END OF MESSAGE

Whelor's
ADSTRACT

OGC/MR. GREANEY (BY TELECON)

WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD
AUTHENTH.ATING
OFFICEE

Paul Eobent
David A. Phillips
19 124-25/6
3
25/5/68
COORDINATING OFFICERS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

SECRET
GROUP T
Laciudred from automatie
arungrading ang
gesigsautions
(pich)
___

14-00000
DISPATCH
INFO
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
FROM
SUBJECT
Chief of Station, JMWAVE
TYPIC/AMBUD/Operational
AMTRIGON-8 (201-283995), AMBUD Case #97
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

Reference: UFGW-7040, 29 April 1968

XX

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN HIDOL INDEXING

MICROFILM
During
1. AMTRIGON-8 was a member of the VILLARO crew.
May 1962 he clandestinely and without authcrization boarded an
infiltration craft moments before its departure on an
operational mission. His absence was not discovered until the
team had infiltrated and moved into its first position,

2. On 8 or 9 June 1962 the infiltration team, including
AMTRIGON-8, became engaged in a firefight with a militia
patrol. AMTRIGON-2, the team leader, reported that AMTRIGON-8
had been wounded and that he assumed AMTRIGON-8 was killed
or perhaps captured. However, no further word has been heard
from AMTRIGON-8 and he is presumed to be dead.

3. Taking into consideration that the disposition of this
case could have an affect on the morale of the other crew
members and their attitude toward WOFIRM, it was decided to
advise the widow of AMTRIGON-8 that he died a hero's death--
while fighting for the liberation of his country and to continue
monthly payments to the widow and children for an indefinite
period. Inclusion of Subject's name on AMBUD Hero & Martyr
rolls was deemed to be the most suitable and expeditious manner
in which to handle such payments.

4. The response to paragraph 2 of reference will be
the subject of a separate dispatch.
Raymond K. Januse
Raymond K. PANUSES

Distribution:
3 - WH/COG
CROSS REFERENCE TO
241-283995
CS COPY
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFGA-30051

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

7124. 10/11
DATE

10 May 1968
HOS FILE NUT BER
201-283995
:
___
14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
11.74
4
ASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES 22
ancy 1.
SECRET
(When Filled In)
CROUPI
ING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY
DECLS RE 3H5000707
DEDLARI CATION
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
BLOTTED
INDER.
VES NO
5
AT:
DISSEM BY

25
RIFLES,
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO 28 19-124-25/6

X-REF.TO FILE NO
ACTION PER FILE KID
LVRTO
INPO:

WHAT CODE
☑ RIP 00B4
WHg cyng MPS/B62

VANE
SEC FET 101341Z MAY 68 CITE JAVAVE 2351
10 08155/
PIRRO.TOR

TYPIC AMDUD

REF: DIRECTOR 97425

AN
PLEASE SEE UPGT-21813 DATED 28 APRIL 68.
PS
SECRET
وات
ABSTRACT X EX
7
14-00000
19
*
NANCYE GRATZ:pid
UNIT! WH/COG/OPS
R9008
7 MAY 1968
MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES
RETURN YO

14/06
38714
OS
2607.

CABLE SECRETARIA DIASIMINATION
25:11
WhIcog
SECRET
RID COPY FILE WIR, CHON,
(classification)
BRANCH
OS

TO
JMWAVE
19
WH8

REF: UFGW 7040*
SECRET

(elite)
(reference number)

Nancye

A494267

PLEASE REPLY REF.

TEND OF MESSAGE

WH/COG/COMMENTS: JMWAVE requested to provide additional
information on two AMBUD dependency cases in
order complete BEC documentation.

WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD
DC/WH/COG/OPS

COORDINATING OFFICERS
DAVID A PATILLTbs
C/WH/COG

SECRET
GROUP T
Encluded frem eutanatie
downgrading and
docigaattication.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
:
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
COPY NO
:

14-00000

DISPATCH
-
TO
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

X NO INDEXING REQUIRED

FROM Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT TYPIC/AMBUD
AMBUD Trust Accounts

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

Reference: UFGW-7020, 11 April 1968
FYI

1. ANTIKI-l has advised that he does not envisago any
problems in closing out the trust accounts. However, since
the bank holding the deposits is relatively small, it was
agreed to accomplish the closing out of accounts over a
period of several months. To this end, the accounts pertaining
to cases #116 (Justo MONTES DE OCA Ceballos) and #114
(Francisco FERNANDEZ Cabrera) have already been closed out
and the funds will be transferred to Headquarters in the
near future.

2. Being forwarded under separate cover is the background
information on the ten trust accounts as requested in reference.

MICROFILM
Attachment:
As stated para 2, u/s/c

Distribution:
3 - WH/COG w/att
Rumoud Panuse
Raymond K. PANUSES

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER DATE

UFGT-21810 28 April 1968
WOS FILE NUMBER

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET 19-124-25/6
:

14-00000

DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

70 Chief of Station, JMWAVE

INFO Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT TYPIC/Operational/AMDUD
Request for Additional Information on The ANBUD Dependency Cases
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

Action Required: See Paragraph 1

1
: 1. It is requested that Raymond K. PANUSES rocheck the file
of Miguel Los Santos DELGADO Martinez (Case No. 97) in an effort
to determine the cause and actual date of his death. Headquarters
file does not reflect this information nor the reason why his
dependents are paid under the AMBUD program. In thoso few coses
of former active assets whose dependents are paid by AMTIKI, the
exact date and circumstance of death is necessary for documentation.

2. It is also requested that ANTIKI be queried regarding
certain vital documents which should be in the file of Benito
BLANCO Cruz (Case No. 3). A copy of a letter from the widow,
dated 11 January 1962, indicated that her marriage certificate
and the birth certificates of her children were enclosed with the
letter. It is possible, but unlikely, these documents were over-
looked when the file was recently reviewed. In any event, the
work check sheet used by the documentation team indicates these
documents were missing from the file.
Distribution:
3-COS, JMWAVE

 Ellen F. MARGANY

CROSS REFERENCE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER DATE

7040 WH/COG/OPS

28 AP 19-124-25/6
CLASSIFICATION HOS FILE NUMBER

WH/COG/OPS Nancye Gratz:jaf
ORIGINATING
OFFICE
C/WH/COG/OPS Arthur T. Kanum
4/24/9
David A. Phillips
DATE
C/WH/COG
DISPATCH

22 April 1968
Distribution:
1-RID
1-WH/REG/C
1-WH/COG/OPS
1-Originator

DATE
OFFICER'S NAME
Ext.

COORDINATING
OFFICEE

FORM 53
USE PREVIOUS EDITION

==

14-00000

70
11-00000
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION
TO Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
MARKED FOR INDEXING

INFO XX NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIFO DESH
CAN FUDGE INDEFING

Chief of Station, JMWAVE F.J. MICROFILM
FROM
SUBJECT
TYPIC/AMBUD/Operational
Adjustment of Dependency Payments - Third