104-10506-10028
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FBI.info
REVIEWED BY FBVJFK TASK FORCE
ON 9/27/98
RELEASE IN FULL
RELEASE IN PART
TOTAL DENIAL

Declassified and Approved for Release
by the Centrai intelligence Agency
Date: 2003

RETIRED FILE
JOB 84-2772
BOX 7 FOLDER-001
DESEL SIZED
per 001 70-17

13-00000

TOP SECRET
SECRET
GONFIDENTIAL

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION
SOURCE: Latin America Division/DDO
DATE OF DOCUMENT: 29 June 1977

REGISTRY
CONTROL NUMBER: SC-01755-77
DATE DOCUMENT RECEIVED:
COPY NUMBER (S): 1 and 5
NUMBER OF PAGES: 148 DOCUMENT NO: 4
NUMBER OF ATTACHMENTS:

LOGGED BY:

FROM: AC/LA Division
DATE: 29/6/77

TO
OFFICE | NAME | SIGNATURE | DATE
------- | -------- | ----------- | --------
1 SA/C/LAD | William C. Sturbitts |  | 6/30/77
2 C/LA/COG | Frederick W. LaTrash |  | 6/30/77
3 AC/LAD | George V. Lauder |  | 30/76
4 ADDO | Theodore G. Shackley |  | 123177
5 IG | Scott Breckinridge, Jr |  | 133177

Approval
Action
Comment
Concurrences
Information
Direct Reply
Preparation of Reply
Recommendation
Signature
Return
Dispatch
File
SEC. CL. ORIGIN
DATE OF DOC DATE REC'D DATE OUT SUSPENSE DATE CROSS REFERENCE OR
POINT OF FILING

TO ROUTING DATE
FROM
SUBJ. | SENT
------- | --------
COURIER NO. ANSWERED NO REPLY | 2

Handle via Comint Channels
CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET
TOP SECRET
GROUP I
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and declassification

/s/RC

13-00000

SC-01755-77

30 JUL 077

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Inspector General

ATTENTION : Mr. Scott Breckinridge, Jr.

VIA : Acting Deputy Director for Operations

FROM : George V. Lauder
Acting Chief, Latin America Division

SUBJECT : Latin America Division Task Force Report
of Possible Cuban Complicity in the
John F. Kennedy Assassination

1. Attached is the Latin America Division report of
findings relative to Cuban complicity in the assassination
of former President John F. Kennedy. This research which was
conducted from mid-October 1976 to June 1977 at the direction
of the Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, E. Henry Knoche,
reviewed all Agency operations conducted against Cuba from
1 January 1960 to 1 January 1965 (concentrating on the period
1 January 1960 to 22 November 1963). We found no definitive
proof that the Castro regime was implicated in the Kennedy
assassination.

2. The report is comprised of the following sections:

LAD/JFK Task Force How Research was conducted

Attachment A: Chronology of Findings (125 pages)
with a Top Secret Annex (14 pages)

Attachment B: List of Task Force participants

Attachment C: Outline of the complete LAD/JFK
Task Force files and description
of their contents.

13-00000

This massive and thorough research effort with all back-up
documents has been assigned the official classification
number 019-604-001. This report is submitted in the format
requested by Mr. Scott Breckinridge, Jr., Task Force Leader.

/s/ George V. Lauder

Attachments, a/s

-2-

13-00000

June 1977

SUBJECT: Latin America Division/JFK Task Force How
Research was Conducted

1. The LA Division Task Force to investigate records
in connection with the assassination of President Kennedy
was formally organized in mid-October 1976. Its purpose,
basically, was to research all Agency operations conducted
against Cuba from 1 January 1960 to 1 January 1965
(concentrating on the period up to 22 November 1963) for
any evidence that such operations might have provoked the
Government of Cuba to take executive action against
President Kennedy. Researchers were also alert to activities
seemingly directed against the U.S./CIA.

2. Reference to material for this research was obtained
from the LAD Registry, the Cuba Desk machine runs, and a
special comprehensive file listing prepared for this purpose
by ISS (Information Services Staff). It was originally
thought that material pertinent to the search would number
approximately 900 operational folders, plus related 201
dossiers. It was later determined, however, that a thorough
review should include additional operational and subject
files which brought the total to well over two thousand files.
In view of the date of the material, much of it, both operational

13-00000

-2-
99
and subject, has been retired to Archives at Warrenton,
Virginia. The remainder is held at Headquarters in
IP/Files or IP/Archives. All 201 dossiers are retained
at Headquarters. This material is easily retrievable
through the use of specific job numbers and file reference
numbers recorded and retained in the LAD/JFK Task Force
files (too numerous to cite herein.)

3. Following is a breakdown of the types and numbers
of files reviewed, criteria employed in the research, the
findings, and organization of the material:

a. Types and Number of Files Reviewed:

1. Operational 1,729
(601 with findings and
1,128 with no findings)

2. Subject 547
(186 with findings and
361 with no findings)

3. Cuba Policy Files 101

4. C/WHD Chrono Files (TFW Chronos) 37 (13-49)

5. Official 201 dossiers 100 plus

TOTAL 2,514

b. Criteria Used in the Research:

As a guide the research group followed some
33 Terms of Reference provided by the Deputy IG, which
were compiled on the basis of issues raised in Book V,
Уж

13-00000

-3-
of the Senate Select Committee Final Report on the
Assassination. (Book V, and a 23 May 1967
Memorandum for the Record by the Inspector General
on Plots to Assassinate Fidel Castro, were required
reading for the researchers.) In addition to the
Terms of Reference, the group remained alert to other
items of interest brought to its attention by the IG
staff, on an ad hoc basis. A name trace was always
run, and/or 201 dossier, if available, reviewed, on
any individual allegedly involved in an assassination
plot against President Kennedy or Fidel Castro.
This
task was made somewhat easier as the result of a
memorandum prepared by the Cuba Desk, in August 1975,
based on traces of the names in the Black Book that
Fidel Castro passed to George McGovern which dealt
with individuals allegedly involved in assassination
attempts against Castro.

c. Findings and Organization of the Findings:

Each researcher submitted a draft paper noting the
Subject of the folder (s) reviewed, a brief description of the
activity, and a copy of the document (s) (findings) which
contained information believed to be pertinent to the re-
view. Also included were Job numbers, Official File
numbers, inclusive dates of material researched, and
number of volumes reviewed. Beginning in January 1977, at
the request of the IG Staff, the researchers also began
noting FBI and/or other government agencies knowledge of

13-00000

-4-
information. Separate, finished, memoranda were prepared,
on the basis of these data, including the heading Findings.
This heading lists the specific document number (s) and
other pertinent data, and a few lines providing the gist
of the document (s) for purpose of easy and quick
reference. These memoranda, with a copy of the document (s)
attached, are filed in alphabetical order, by project and
subject, in hard-back green folders as part of the official
LAD/JFK Task Force files under the official classification
number 019-604-001 (Volumes XI through XX). Also included
in the records are two folders (Volumes IX and X) con-
taining 1,439 draft memoranda with negative findings.

4. Appended are the following:

A) Chronology of Findings (125 pages) with
Top Secret UMBRA Annex (14 pages);

B) List of Task Force participants and their
functions;

C) Outline of the complete LAD/JFK Task Force
files and description of their contents.

13-00000

ATTACHMENT A

CHRONOLOGY of FINDINGS (125 Pages)
with a TOP SECRET Annex (14 Pages) Code Word Material

13-00000

CHRONOLOGY OF FINDINGS

Anti-Castro Activities Cuba 19-9-9

HVCA 11020 dated 28 February 1964

A Caracas Station asset reported an operation called
"Plan Judas" being constructed at that time inside
Cuba. The plan reportedly involved an internal
uprising with the support of certain Cuban military
figures conspiring against Fidel CASTRO. Key figures
reportedly included Juan ALMEIDA, Efigenio AMEIJEIRAS
Delgado, Pepin NARANJO, Regino BOTTI, and two COSSIO
brothers. On 24 February 1964, Francisco SUAREZ
Quinones, a JURE (Revolutionary Junta) member in
Caracas, told U.S. Embassy officials that JURE was
then sponsoring a plan to assassinate Fidel CASTRO and
other high-ranking Cuban Government officials as part
of an operation designed to incite an internal rebellion
in Cuba. The Station reported this plan, speculating
that it may be connected in some way with Plan Judas.

DBA 77673 dated 15 July 1964 (FBI)

Reported plan of Cuban exile leaders to assassinate
selected Cuban Government leaders. Individuals involved
included Byron CAMERON, owner of m.v. "Cayman Hope,"
Teofilo BABUN Franco, co-owner of Antillean Marine Shipping

13-00000

2-

Corp. and two BABUN employees, Oscar FERNANDEZ Veigo
and Eliseo GOMEZ Fernandez; also, Jose "Pepin" BOSCH,
Julio LOBO Olavarria and Eduardo GARCIA of the Garcia
Lines, New York City. One of the ship owners allegedly
had contacts with the underworld through his partner,
a former police officer from St. Louis with tie-in
to elements of the "Cosa Nostra."

DBA 92798 dated 7 December 1964 (FBI)

An FBI source reported an attempt to be made against
Fidel CASTRO, Raul CASTRO and "Che" GUEVARA within
Cuba during period 20 Dec 64 to 10 Jan 65 by a small
elite group in La Cabana Military Base, Havana, which
belonged to a security section inside of the Cuban
Intelligence Service. Plans were to be carried out
by Cubans in Cuba with no help from the U.S.

Anti-CASTRO PM Operations 19-9-9

DBA 43687 dated 20 June 1963 (FBI)

On 18 June 1963 an unnamed representative of Ejercito
Cubano Anticomunista (Cuban Anti-Communist Army) met with
a representative of Santos TRAFFICANTE, described as
a former gambling czar in Cuba and presently a member
of the Mafia in the U.S., in an effort to obtain rockets,
high explosives, and detonators for use in raids
against Cuba.

13-00000

3

DBA 45327 dated 12 July 1963 (FBI)

Manolo AGUILAR, 829 S.W. 9th Avenue, Miami, leader
of the Frente Revolucionario Anticomunista (FRAC)
(Anti-Communist Revolutionary Front) obtained some
100 Beretta 7.65 caliber pistols with silencers which
his organization planned to eventually use in Cuba to
assassinate various Cuban leaders. AGUILAR allegedly
obtained these pistols from an unidentified American
who had connections with the Mafia.

DBA 45895 dated 19 July 1963 (FBI)

On 15 July 1963 the Miami News carried an article "Back
Stage with Bobby" by Hal Hendrix, which related growing
speculation in Miami and Washington that Attorney General
Robert Kennedy was quietly backing a new anti-Castro
operation with exiles Manuel ARTIME, Enrique RUIZ Williams,
and Roberto and Jose SAN ROMAN. All held high posts in
Brigade 2506 (Bay of Pigs). Speculation linked Kennedy's
close association with these exiles to a deal with
Nicaragua through ex-President Luis SOMOZA.

Anti-CASTRO PM OPERATIONS 19-9-9/1

DBA 78251 dated 18 August 1964 (FBI)

Reported plan of Cuban exile leaders to assassinate

13-00000

-4-
selected Cuban Government leaders. Prices allegedly
agreed upon were $100,000 to assassinate Fidel CASTRO;
$20,000 for Raul CASTRO; and $20,000 for "Che"
GUEVARA. This information was provided to the FBI
by another Government Agency that allegedly had
several meetings with one Byron CAMERON, Fort
Lauderdale, Fla. CAMERON allegedly was acquainted
with several policemen in St. Louis with ties to
the underworld. CAMERON denied involvement with
policemen connected with the underworld and said he
had never discussed with anyone plans to assassinate
Fidel or others.

JMARC Operation 19-120-15

DIRECTOR 36823 (OUT 90086) 25 June 1960

Cable to Mexico and Havana. Reported that five
Castro agents recently left Cuba, 3 for Miami and
2 for New York, with task to abduct AMHAWK (Manuel
Antonio VARONA y Loredo). Source was PELAEZ (fnu) thru
BARKER's wife. Information was passed to the FBI.

Suggested that VARONA be warned to take normal security
precautions.

13-00000

-5

XAAZ 6269 (OUT 90031) 26 June 1960

The Agency provided the above information on proposed
abduction of VARONA to the FBI, and advised that the
same information was being sent to I&NS.
.:

JMARC PM Operations General 19-132-2

DIRECTOR 09972 (OUT 88974) 31 Oct 1960

Cable to Guatemala giving details of training
of assault force for paramilitary ops against Cuba.

GUAT 821 (IN 1688) 13 January 1961 to BELL.

FYI: Reported that Alexander ROURKE, free lance newsman
from New York City in Miami, told ESOLEO-1 that Frank
FIORINI and Dr. Orlando BOSCH of Miami, representing
man in Cuba named DIEGO (fnu), were recruiting and
equipping force in Florida to assault Cuba 18 January.
The organization was receiving financial aid from an
organization in New York City known as Anti-Communist
International Association.

DBF 90801 dated 10 March 1961 (FBI)

New York FBI office advised that invasion of Cuba
was to take place week of 6 March 1961 by members of
an anti-Castro group from Nassau, Bahamas, British
West Indies.

13-00000

6-

JMARC Program 19-120-15/2

MASH 1470 (IN 38669) 6 Nov 1960.

Cable to CIA Headquarters and Havana stating that
RECAREY, (fnu), cousin of a Guat trainee, arrived
MASH from Havana on 5 November to check bonafides
of Eduardo OJEDA Camaraza. OJEDA had made contact
with AMYUM/AMRUNG Havana and told details of MASH
recruitment, training, names of trainees and mission
in Cuba. MASH feared AMRUNG/AMYUM may try kill OJEDA
as Castro penetration/provocateur if bonafides not
established.

RIMM 5846 (IN 2708) 4 June 1961

Radio message #84 from agent in Cuba advised "functionary of
Italian Embassy by name of MORATORI says he works for one
intelligence org. of yours, says he is in contact with
Martin Elena and others and that you have plans for
invasion within 30 days after killing Fidel. Advise if
we can confide in MORATORI."

BELL 0987 (OUT 9804) 6 June 1961

Radio message #72 to agent "MORATORI unknown to us. Do
not confide in him. MORATORI's information of pending
invasion within 30 days after killing Fidel not true.
Beware of rumor mongers and provocateurs."

13-00000

- 7 -

AMBLEAK 19-6-58/3,4

UFG 2267 dated 23 January 1963

Reported on activities of Manuel Antonio VARONA
of "Rescate" (Revolutionary Democratic Rescue) in
Costa Rica and other Central American countries re
discussing Cuban situation with foreign ministers of
those countries. While in Costa Rica he negotiated
with local political personalities to recruit and train
an anti-Communist paramilitary force along lines then
being developed in Colombia.

AMBRUSH Operation 19-5-6

Document dated 19 August 1961 (No document symbol)

Handcarried to Headquarters from JMWAVE. Document
contains comments from AMPAL-1 on pro-Cuban sources
in the U.S. He reported information from other sources
that Fidel CASTRO is sending in many G-2 women instead
of men for his clandestine operations between U.S and
Cuba. Also reported that the Russians have spies in the
Pentagon that pull for Fidel CASTRO, and agents in all
branches of the U.S. Government of importance including
the CIA. Further, that all people in Cuba picked up
for working for CIA are done so because of information
from these agents. The source was told of suspicions of
one Eugenio, a Cuban. /COMMENT: SLIPSTREAM-1 in 1976
advised that one Eugenio MARTINEZ in Miami was a Castro

13-00000

8
agent. One Eugenio Rolando MARTINEZ Careaga was
a Miami Station agent involved in the Watergate
breakin. There was no reference to assassination
in this file.

AMCANOE Operation 19-6-91

TDCSDB 3/654,571 dated 9 May 1963

Reported meeting on 7 May 63 between Paulino A. SIERRA,
a Cuban lawyer from Chicago, and representatives of 43
Cuban exile groups in Miami. SIERRA claimed he had
backing of wealthy Chicago business people who were
willing to loan up to $30 million dollars for the
purpose of overthrowing the Castro Government. SIERRA
said the money could be made available to organizations
having the capability of carrying out clandestine activity
in Cuba.

WAVE 8743 (IN 43724) 22 May 1963

A Miami Station asset reported information from Julio
GARCERAN del Vall y Souza, of the PGCC, (Pro-Constitutional
Government of Cuba in Exile) who, on 9 May 63, said that
Cuban exile groups were puzzled with regard to the American
policy toward Cuba and the exile community. GARCERAN said
that among persons who recently visited him were Enrique
RUIZ Williams Alfert, a personal friend of Attorney
General Robert F. Kennedy, and Jaime VARELA Canosa; also

13-00000

9-
PERULLERO (fnu). Those three reportedly represented
a group of members of Brigade 2506 who had been
training at Fort Jackson, South Carolina. RUIZ Williams
was trying to form a nucleus for an invasion force.
GARCERAN had been offered use of a large ranch in Colombia
for operations against Cuba but feared that use of such
would create an international incident and provoke a
war between Cuba and Colombia.

Memorandum for the Record by Carl Trettin 3 Mar 1964

AMCANOE-1 reported that an acquaintance of his (un-
identified), a businessman and ship owner with interest
in slot machine business placing them in gambling
houses placed the man in contact with elements in
the underworld primarily through his partner, a former
St. Louis police officer. Through the latter, there
was tie-in with the Cosa Nostra. The Cosa Nostra
interests alleged to have numerous contacts still
available to them in Cuba and offered to assassinate
Castro for $150 thousand dollars.

UFGA 15233 dated 15 April 1964

Report on a Byron CAMERON who said that he represented
an unidentified group of persons who had made contact
with two Cuban gangsters who were willing to kill Fidel
CASTRO. CAMERON reportedly was associated with a Mr.
S.W. TYLER (no identifiable traces) of Caribbean
Producer, Inc., Miami Springs, Fla., and Herbert F.

13-00000

-10
JENNE (no traces) with the firm F.A. Johnson, Inc.,
Fort Lauderdale, Fla. CAMERON was reported as
allegedly belonging to the Mafia.

UFGA 15954 dated 11 May 1964

On 3 March 64 CAMERON held a meeting with Teofilo BABUN
Franco, Oscar FERNANDEZ Viego, Eliseo GOMEZ Fernandez,
Freddie GARCIA, Eddie GARCIA and Miguel Guillermo
TRUYOL-Gimeno. CAMERON mentioned that he was in contact
with an unidentified group who would be willing to
assassinate select Cuban officials for cash: specifically
CAMERON was interested in assassinating Fidel CASTRO,
Raul CASTRO and "Che" GUEVARA. They agreed on $100
thousand for Fidel, $20 thousand for Raul and $20
thousand for "Che." CAMERON made it fairly clear at
the beginning that the Mafia was involved.

AMCLOCK Production and Correspondence 19-6-133/4
(Currently PLSLSTEEL)

ESGW 193 dated 2 September 1960

Dispatch from Headquarters to Geneva and Bern
forwarding general requirements for asset. One
question was precautions taken to prevent possible
assassination attempts of top Cuban officials.

13-00000

11

TDCSDB 3/651,885 dated 25 October 1962

Reported view of Soviet diplomat on the Cuban
situation. The Soviet diplomat, Minister MOLYAKOV,
told a Bloc diplomat that he thought the U.S. action
with regard to Cuba was "an election affair." He
professed to believe that Kennedy learned on an
election tour that his popularity had dropped and
undertook the Cuban measure to "become the leader
Further, that it
again," and gain mass support.
worked, and Kennedy again had succeeded in being
the ''man of the nation." The Soviet diplomat commented
that the USSR would not let the American move go
without retaliation. /COMMENT: This no doubt referred
to the missile crisis.7

TDCSDB 3/652,011 dated 1 November 1962

Reported reaction of Satellite officials to the Cuban
missile developments. One remarked that Cuba was as
important to the USA as to the USSR and thus conflict
was inevitable. Some agreed that President Kennedy
had made a tactical error in not simply invading Cuba
without warning. An East European remarked that all the
European nations had shown understanding of "Kennedy and
his ships, and would let him play around with them until
the elections, but after the elections he would have to
put them away and negotiate seriously." The source
commented that it was clear that the officials had no clear
insight into Soviet intentions, or what the real

13-00000

12
ramifications of Cuba would be, but were talking to
reinforce their faith.

GNVA 6117 (IN 00894) dated 18 January 1964

Report on Soviet Bloc officials' attitude towards U.S.
internal political developments. An East European
attributed the assassination of President Kennedy to
the Birch Society but stated that something must have
gone wrong at the last moment. He speculated that an
attack on the USSR was to have followed on the heels
of the assassination but had somehow been forestalled.

GNVA 4523 (IN 38202 ) dated 19 December 1962

Reported that Soviet offensive missiles were introduced
into Cuba as part of a twofold Soviet-Cuba plan which
was agreed upon "several months ago." Emplacement of
Soviet defensive missiles was to constitute the first
phase. For the second phase, a major Soviet fleet unit
was to have been invited to visit Cuba on a cruise. This
was expected to cause immediate U.S. reaction, but the
presence of Soviet fleet units surrounding Cuba was
considered an effective guarantee that the U.S. would
not resort to immediate invasion or other armed action to
eliminate missile threat. Purpose of exercise was to force

13-00000

13

a major change of U.S. policy towards Cuba. It was
anticipated that U.S. reaction would be violent, and from
the beginning the plan called for immediate withdrawal
at the price of agreement by U.S. that it would end
hostile attitude towards Cuba. The Soviets did not
implement phase two. This disappointed and angered
the Cubans. The Cuban leaders considered that the
Soviets had besmirched its own honor and offended the pride
of Cuba. KHRUSHCHEV composed a letter to President
Kennedy proposing a deal concerning Soviet missile
bases in Cuba and American bases in Turkey. KHRUSHCHEV
reportedly later regretted the phraseology and not
having consulted with Cuba prior to dispatch of the
letter.

GNVA 6316 (IN 31199) dated 3 March 1964

Raul ROA said that prior to his assassination, President
Kennedy "established certain contacts" with Cuba.
Kennedy had sent emissaries to contact Cubans. ROA
specifically cited contacts that had taken place in
New York. ROA thought that Kennedy would have gone on
to negotiate with Cuba, for practical reasons, which
would have been to Cuba's advantage. He thought that
President Johnson was unaware of Kennedy's actions.

13-00000

14
AMCOBRA (later AMBANTY) Operation 19-132-11

WAVE 7250 (IN 57364) dated 12 November 1963

Radio message from agent. "The sewage chief of Havana was
executed. He was accused of having given the sewage
plans to the CIA in order to install the bombs that
exploded during Fidel's speech to the Defense Committees."

WAVE 7523 (IN 61119) dated 15 November 1963

Radio message from agent. "The obligatory military
service makes us reduce intelligence information.
have to decide between insurrection and departing Cuba.
I have decided on insurrection. I hope you will help
me with the weapons I need."

WAVE 7594 (IN 61966) dated 16 November 1963

Message to agent. "As you agreed when you were here,
there can be no insurrection in Cuba until it can take
place simultaneously throughout Cuba. Such a total
uprising is not possible at this time."

WAVE 7593 (IN 61967) dated 16 November 1963

Message to agent. "If you insist on precipitant action
before the whole plan is ready you are going to draw all
the enemy forces down upon you and the people of Pinar
which will result in the complete destruction of every-
thing you and your men have labored so hard to create.
We cannot support an insurrection now. We will continue
to support you and group as agreed upon."
I will

13-00000

15
WAVE 7707 (IN 62544) dated 17 November 1963

Message to agent. We are unable to support insurrection
in Pinar now because it would be premature.

WAVE 8125 (IN 67382) dated 24 November 1963

Message from agent. "Sincere grief and condolence for loss
of the greatest leader and statesman of our time,
John Kennedy."

WAVE 8598 (IN 75428) dated 6 December 1963

Message to agent. "Thank you for sincere condolences
on death of President Kennedy."

AMCOG Operation 19-6-63

WAVE 1465 (IN 11710) dated 4 February 1964

Agent reported that he was told that OSWALD was in
Havana between 2 and 7 October 1963. A lady saw him in
shirt sleeves, wearing good shoes and smoking American
cigars accompanied by Clemente MORERA, an employee of
Terminales Mambisas who belongs to the DSE. He (OSWALD)
was seen by the sister of Comandante MIRANDA."

/COMMENT: Note document # 517-218 for FOIA Review on
June 1976.7
L

13-00000

16
COMMANDOS MAMBISAS 19-126-45

A 4 November 1963 Miami Herald article, and 12
November 1963 Washington Post article revealed that
Fidel CASTRO was extremely upset at the recent
successes of the Commandos Mambisas raids targetted
principally against sugar cane industry.

AMCONCERT Project 19-6-41

The Agency began this project in March 1960. Its
objective was to provide information on plans and
activities of the Government of Cuba and opposition
to the GOC. The principal asset was Francisco
VARONA Alonso (201-234983.). VARONA was recruited
in April 1959 to elicit information from contacts in
Cuba. He was arrested in April 1961, released, and
returned to Miami in February 1962. He was used by
Miami Station as an informant and terminated February
1969 for being unproductive, unreliable, a poor
security risk, and hostile to the U.S. and the U.S.G.

13-00000

17
Control of Cuban Travelers 200-9-49

KNGS 0948 (IN 54974) dated 5 November 1963

On 15 October 63 Dominican student Carlos Manuel
CABRAL Lofontaine attempted to enter Cuba via Kingston
ostensibly to attend architect conference. Jamaican
authorities, suspecting the trip to be a pretext,
returned CABRAL to the Dom. Rep.

The First Secretary of the Cuban Embassy Ottawa, Osvaldo
RELOVA, visited Kingston from 14-21 October 1963,
purpose unexplained. While there he lived in the
Consulate the entire stay.

HABA 12,838 dated 5 November 1963

Report concerning unofficial irregular air service
established between Cuba and Brazil, for transportation
of political rather than commercial travelers.

POSN 0340 (IN 54917) dated 5 November 1963

On 25 October 1963 a Russian plane arrived in Pointe-
A-Pitre, Guadeloupe, with 60 passengers. 41 transferred
to Panama for Rio; the remainder left on the "Russian"
plane. COMMENT: note on cable states that the Cubans
were returning from architects congress.7

13-00000

18
AMCOVE Operation 19-6-93/2,3,4

WAVE 7356 (IN 58343) dated 10 November 1963

Re security crackdown in Cuba, largest since early
1961. Believed to be due to discontent among Cuban
populace re economic failures, and CASTRO's fears of
impact of recent raids on Cuba which would increase
spontaneous sabotage inside Cuba which he may interpret
as meaning U.S. Government has stepped up activities to
overthrow his regime. CASTRO plans to counter these
aspirations by USG with full use of police powers and
repressive measures.

TDCSDB 3/658,075 dated 27 November 1963

All Cuban combat units were confined to bases
effective 23 November 1963. Following news of death
of President Kennedy, Defense Committee members and
personnel at certain work centers in Cuba began to
celebrate event.

AMCOVE-1 SW Message #60 dated 24 November 1963

Reported strange activities at the Brazilian Embassy
in Havana following news of President Kennedy's death
22 November 1963.

13-00000

19

AMCOVE-1 SW Message #66 dated 5 December 1963

Report giving names of travelers from Prague on
22 November 1963; travelers from Spain on 23
November 1963. Also, report that high figures of
CASTRO regime were very nervous on the day of
Kennedy's death. This information came from
AMCOVE-11 who obtained it from a doctor friend,
who obtained it from a Navy Comandante who was not
a sympathizer of the regime.

AMCOVE-1 SW Message #68 dated 6 December 1963

AMCOVE-11 (Dr. Pedro Antonio RODRIGUEZ Inigo reported
"rumors in Cuba that Lee OSWALD, assassin of Kennedy,
was photographed in Varadero and Pinar del Rio, and
that his (sic) sister, employed at Cuban Embassy Mexico,
was a prisoner in Dallas, Texas, with personal documentation
of OSWALD and $65,000 dollars. Swiss Ambassador Havana
told employees that Lee OSWALD was an associate of
Fidel CASTRO."

AMCROAK Operation 19-6-97

MADR 9866 (IN 74333) dated 5 December 1963

AMCROAK-1 (Dr. Bernardo MILANES Lopez) discussed an
operational plan with AMOT-2 (Joaquin SANJENIS Perdomo)
Ук

13-00000

20
which consisted of elimination of high GOC personalities.
MILANES had not mentioned the plan to the case officer.
(MILANES was recruited by CIA in Madrid in December 1963