14-00000
104-10107-10180
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
:(
MIBORANDUM FOR: Director of Logistics
SUBJECT
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
07-0202
0CM-67-09/
Communications
1 FEB 1957
: Request for Services of Collins Modem Field Service
Engineer

1. The Office of Communications recently purchased two Colline Radio
Company Model TE-216D-160 High Frequency Data Modens at a cost of $20,000
each. These Hodems are specially designed equipment and will be used to
best the feasibility of transmitting Secure (encrypted) Voice over a narrow
band, high frequency, radio circuit. We also intend to determine their
suitability for use in high speed data transmission, and tests by our
Engineering Staff are scheduled to commence in mid-February.

2. Owing to the fact Modeas are very complex in operation requiring
special set-up techniques end adjustment, it would be adventageous to have
a specialist available to assist our personnel and to assure timely completion
of the tests. Accordingly, it is requested that a contract be let with the
Collins Fedio Company for the services of a Field Service Engineer. It is
presently estimated that the services of this Engineer will be required at
24 (Station "D", VTC) for approximately six to eight weeks depending on test
results. The exact date on which the Engineer is needed will be determined
as preliminary installation of the equipment is completed. For planning
purposes, however, ve estimate he will be required on or about 6 March 1967.

3. It is understood from discussions with Collins representatives at
Newport Beach, California, that engineering services of this type cost
approximately $3,000 per month in addition to travel expenses. We recommend
that the services of Moden Field Service Engineer, Mr. (Donald Warren Waycott,) 106
be secured, as he has an Agency TOP SECRET clearance effective 19 May 1965.

4. For any additional information, please contact Mr. (Jeck W. Andrews
on Extension 2045.
°3
Attachment:
Request for Procurement Services

JOHN W. COFFEY
Director of Communications

RET
31N

14-00000
SURJECT: Request for Services of Collins Hoden Field Service
Engineer
CONCURRENCE:

(Signed) RICHARD H. LANSDALE
Office of Ceneral Counsel

Harlon a. Werthell
Director of Security
APPROVAL:

// Dow H. Inter
Director of Personmel
Distribution:
Orig. & 1
-
Addressee w/att.
1 Director of Security w/o att.
-
1
Director of Personnel w/o att,
1- Ceneral Counsel w/o ett.

RET
2
:
1907
3 FEB 1967
Date

1937
Date
