104-10310-10020

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TRANSMITTAL SLIP |

TO: DDCI
1-

ROOM NO.
BUILDING

REMARKS:

FROM:

ROOM NO.
BUILDING
EXTENSION
55 FOREB-241
REPLACES FORM 36-6
WHICH MAY BE USED.
GPO 1957-0-439445
(0)

13-00000-

(CLASSIFICATION)
...

65-1507/2

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

In reply refer to
Action Memorandum No. A-450

Date 7 April 1965

ACTION

TO Deputy Director for Plans
Dopaty Director for Intelligence
: Deputy Director for Science & Technology
Deputy Director for support

Agreement Between the United states Secret Service
and the Central Intelligence Agency Concerning
SUBJECT : Presidential Protection in the United States

REFERENCE: Aecorandum from: DDCI to DD/L DD/F, and DD/S,
dated 8 June 1963, subject: The CIA Role in Support
of Presidential Trips Abroad

1. Attached for the information of addressees is a copy of subject
agreement developed by the Chief of the secret service and re, in accordance
with the recommendations of the Warren Commission and the actions of the
President's Committee on the Warren Report.

2. The Deputy Director for Plans la responsible for insuring
Agency con.pliance with this agreement and for maintaining the active liaison
with the Secret Service. The staff function in this regard is being performed
in the Counter Intelligence Staff of the DD/P. All Agency components in
liaison with the Secret Service are to keep the Counter Intelligence staff
inforned of their dealings with the jocret Service, The Counter Intelligence
Staff will provide advice to other Agency components who receive requests
for support from the Secret Service.

3. This agreement does not amend or alter current Agency policy
as expressed in my memorandum of 8 June 1963 concerning support of
Presidential cripe abroad. An additional agreement with the secret service,
involving CIA and other Government agencies dealing with Presidential travel
abroad, is in process of developzest.

SUSPENSE DATE:
Attachn.ent

Cc: CGC
nis

(Signed), Marshall S. Carter
raball 3, Carter
Lieutenant General, USA
Deputy Director

(CLASSIFICATION)

MEMORANDUM

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

nee Registry
65-1567

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES SECRET SERVICE AND
THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY CONCERNING PRESIDENTIAL
PROTECTION IN THE UNITED STATES

I. Purpose of Agreement

A. The purpose of this Agreement is to define the types of infor-
mation, administrative assistance and support to be furnished by the
Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) to the United States Secret Service so
that the Service may best fulfill its responsibilities to protect the person
of the President of the United States while he is in the United States. The
CIA role in support of Presidential trips abroad is the subject of a
separate Agreement with the Secret Service.

B. The terms of this Agreement shall be applied to the protection
of members of the President's immediate family, the President-elect,
the Vice President or other officer nest in the order of succession to
the office of President, the Vice President-elect and former Presidents.

II. General Responsibilities

A. The Secret Service has the responsibility for protecting the
person of the President. It undertakes to identify individuals who, brause
of their individual propensities or characteristics, are dangerous or who
may pose a threat to the person of the President. It arranges whatever
action is required to counteract any th eat to the person of the President
posed by such individuals.

CONFIDENTIAL
E...
C

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL
1.

B. The CIA has primary responsibility for the clandestine collection
of foreign intelligence information, and for the correlation, evaluation
and dissemination within the Government of foreign positive and counter
intelligence. It gathers and maintains biographic and other data on
organizations and individuals, official and non-official, for the purpose of
performing its statutory functions. It also originates, and receives from
other sources, reports on organizations and individuals. However, the
Agency has no police, subpoena or law-enforcement powers or internal-
security functions.

III. Information to be Reported by CIA

A. The CIA will furnish to the Secret Service information that comes
into its possession of the type set forth in Appendix A to this Agreement
concerning individuals coming to its attention of the classes set forth in
Appendix B to this Agreement. The information may be furnished in more
than one report, and in emergency situations priority attention will be
given to its preparation and delivery.
-

B. After reporting an individual to the Secret Service, the CIA
will thereafter--unless the Secret Service otherwise requests--report to
the Secret Service additional information which it thereafter receives or
obtains concerning such individual.

C. The CIA will furnish to the Secret Service intelligence and
intelligence information that becomes available concerning:

CONFIDENTIAL

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL
i

(1) Groups outside the United States which advocate
assassination of government officials as a political weapon
and which appear to constitute an existing threat to the
President or any persons named in Article I, Paragraph B.
above;

(2) Sabotage and assassination training by hostile
intelligence services or groups and the identity of persons
so trained who appear to constitute an existing threat to
the President or any person named in Article I, Para-
graph B. above;

(3) Plots in the United States or abroad to assassinate
a Chief of State or other high official.

D. This agreement shall be reviewed by representatives of the CIA
and the Secret Service annually, or at such more frequent occasions as
either the CIA or the Secret Service may request, to make certain that
the system of reporting is both practicable and productive. Revisions
may be made on the authority of the Deputy Director of the CIA and the
Chief of the Secret Service.

IV. Provision of CIA Personnel to Protect the President

A. On occasion the use of a large number of armed officers is
required to carry out the protective functions of the Secret Service due to
such factors as the size of the crowds, the number of persons to be pro-
tected or the existence of a national emergency. At such times CIA may,
at the request of the Secret Service, detail some of its security officers

CONFIDENTIAL

13-00000

CONDENTIAL
i
.:
to the Secret Service in order to augment the Service's capacity to carry
out its protective functiors in the most secure manner.

B. Such officers detailed by the CIA will be designated officers of
the Secret Service under the direction and operational control of the Chief
of the United States Secret Service. No person shall be so detailed unless
he has qualified in the use of firearms either in accordance with standards
established by the Chief of the United States Secret Service, or in accord-
ance with standards established by the Director of Security of the CIA.
Persons so detailed will be authorized to carry firearms and to perform
such other protective functions and duties as are authorized by law, as
provided by section 3056 of title 18, United States Code, as amended.

V. Implementation of Agreement

A. The Secret Service and the CIA undertake to maintain an active
liaison to insure the prompt passage of available information concerning
individuals reported to the Secret Service by the CIA and evaluated by
the Secret Service as dangerous to the President or any person named in
Article I, Paragraph B. Furthermore, in order to effect the best possible
security of such persons, the Secret Service and the CIA will take such
steps as are necessary to insure that the terms of this Agreement are
fully carried out.

Central Intelligence Agency

!!
Dated: 27 March 1965.
By Marshall S. Carter
Deputy Director

United States Secr. Service
Dated: B
By James J. Rowiey
CONFIDENTIAL Chief

13-00000
:
||
1.
2.
3.
CONFIDENTIAL

APPENDIX A

Information to Be Furnished on Individuals Reported by the Central
Intelligence Agency to the Secret Service

Identification Data. to the extent available to CIA, name or names of
individual (including prior legal names, aliases and pseudonyms),
address, photograph (or statement as to availability of such), physical
description, date and place of birth, employment and marital status;

Reason or Reasons for Reporting - statement of the class or classes
in Appendix B, which the individual reported fits;

A summary or excerpts, as appropriate, of such portions of any
CLA file on an individual reported which cause him to fit any class
or classes in Appendix B.

CONFIDENTIAL

13-00000
i
1.

2.

CONFIDENTIAL

APPENDIX B

Types of Individuals to Be Reported by the Central Intelligence Agency
to the Secret Service

Individuals who have made threats of bodily harm against, or have
attempted to cause bodily harm to, officials or employees of Federal,
state or local Governments or foreign government officials while
they are residing in or planning an imminent visit to this country;
provided that such threats or acts are made against the Government
official or employee because of his official status;

Individuals who threaten or attempt to redress a real or imaginary
grievance against Federal, state or local Governments or any
employee or official thereof by other than legal means;

13.
United States citizens who defect or indicate a desire to defect;
4.

5.
Nationals of any country in the Sino-Soviet Bloc (including the USSR
and Communist China) located in the United States, and who have
escaped from the control of any such country, or who, being outside
such jurisdiction and control, are unwilling to return thereto, and
who have been of pecial interest or value to the United States, and
who cannot be eliminated as a possible source of danger to the
President or any person named in Article I, Paragraph B;

Subversives, com nunists, racists and fascists in the United States
who meet one or more of the following criteria:

CONFIDENTIAL
!

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

(a) Evidence of emotional instability or irrational or
suicidal behavior, particularly in persons who have a record
of transitory residence or employment;

(b) Expressions of strong or violent anti-United States
sentiment;

(c) Prior acts (including arrest or convictions) or conduct
or statements indicating a propensity for violence and antip-
athy toward good order and government.

The term "subversives" shall mean persons (including members of
the Communist Party and Communist front organizations) who
knowingly or willfully advocate, abet, advise or teach the duty,
necessity or propriety of overthrowing or destroying the Govern-
ment of the United States or the government of any state, district
or possession thereof or the government of any political subdivision
therein by force or violence or by the assassination of any officer
of any such government.

CONFIDENTIAL

13-00000.

LAST MONTH
1963 ОСТОBER 1963
SMTWTFS
1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 10 11 12
13 14 15 16 17 18 19
20 21 22 23 24 25 26
27 28 29 30 31
1963 NOVEMBER 1963
SMTWTF S
12
3 4 5 6 7 8 9
10 11 12 13 14 15 16
17 18 19 20 21 22 23
24 25 26 27 28 29 30
NEXT MONTH
1963 DECEMBER 1963
SMTWTFS
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30 31

Friday 22 November

A.M. FPM
8:45 1:00
9:00 Intelligence Briefing 1:15
9:15 1:30
9:30 1:45
9:45 2:00
10:00 2:15
10:15 2:30
10:30 2:45
10:45 3:00
11:00 3:15
11:15 3:30
11:30 3:45 Cement Cark
11:45 4:00 returned from Iso
12:00 4:15
nents of
12:15 4:30 renneisy
12:30 4:45
12:45 5:00

MEMORANDA

326 Friday, November 22, 1963 39

13-00000

LAST MONTH
1963 ОСТОBER 1963
SMTWTFS
1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 10 11 12
13 14 15 16 17 18 19
1963 NOVEMBER 1963
SMTWT
3 4 5 6
10 11 12 13
F S
12
7 8 9
14 15 16
17 18 19 20 21 22 23
NEX: MONTH
1963 DECEMBER 1963
SMTWTFS
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
20 21 22 23 24 25 26
27 28 29 30 31
24 25 26 27 28 29 30
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30 31

Sat.-Sun. 23-24 November

A.M.
P.M.
DCI, Helms, cline, R. Jask
8:45h, col. White Dr. 1:00
Jhal Mr.Kirkpatrick
9:00 at EAST 1:15
9:15
whit, welms.cline, LBK- 1:30
atfost
9:30 1:45
9:45 2:00
SAI
10:00
SA
2:15 Mr. Bros: meretric
10:15met w/whatin Kirkpatrick 2:30
F
at Langley. Colned white
joined for a while
Mr Elter Mr Vivo co
10:30 2:45
10:45 3:00
11:00 3:15
11:15 3:30
11:30 3:45
11:45 4:00
12:00 4:15
12:15 4:30
12:30 to white sense to 4:45
repicts to presinant
12:45
Hidro by w/Mr Kimpatrick 5:00

MEMORANDA
SUNDAY-8:30 Meeting at East Bldg w/ CI #Intell Brictin
briefers, Generel canter left at 1dico for 18:15 mating
at DCI's house, then he was to go home
16
(w/cline (wlby, Elder)
327 Sat, Nov. 23, 1963 38 328 Sun., Nov. 24, 1963 37

13-00000

LAST MONTH
1963 ОСТOBER 1963
SMTWTFS
1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 10 11 12
13 14 15 16 17 18 19
20 21 22 23 24 25 26
27 28 29 30 31
Monday
1963 NOVEMBER 1963
SMTWT
F S
12
3 4 5 6 7 8 9
10 11 12 13 14 15 16
17 18 19 20 21 22 23
24 25 26 27 28 29 30
NEXT MONTH
1963 DECEMBER 1963
SMTWTFS
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28.
29 30 31
November
25

A.M.
P.M.
8:30 DEL
anessing: PiSmith
8:45 clinc at East 1:00
9:00 1:15
9:15 1:30
9:30 1:45
9:45 2:00
10:00 Left pick up Mrs Carter 2:15
and mos me come to go to
10:15 Stmatthew's 2:30
10:30 2:45 Returned from Funent
after going to Quarters
10:45 3:00
11:00 3:15
3:25 Mr. Heties
11:15 3:30
11:30 3:45
11:45 4:00
12:00 Preside it kennedy's funeral 4:15
at St. Marthel's
12:15 4:30
1
12:30 4:45
12:45 5:00

MEMORANDA 6:30 51
St
D.I will
• Eneral Barnes
01-Dinner -Dinnerd by
Fring Navy club (lied Room) in honor
format
(
drina
of visiting Britin sic prach
will : 1 by
Comcille Monday, November Monday, November 25, 1963
329
36
deal of Fred Kennedy
-

13-00000

14 February 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Special Group (5412) Meeting at 1600 on 13 February
1

1. Present were Mr. McGeorge Bundy, Mr. McCone,
Mr. Vance, General Taylor, Mr. Alexis Johnson, Mr. Mann,
General Carter, Mr. FitzGerald, and Peter Jessup. General
Taylor and Mr. FitzGerald were present only for the Cuban
item.

2. Prior to the arrival of Mr. Bundy, General Taylor
mentioned to Mr. Alexis Johnson an upcoming trip of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff to Norfolk, Fort Bragg, and Panama. After
some jocular bantering, Mr. Johnson vetoed the Panama portion
of the trip, with General Taylor hoping that this denial was
purely for the physical protection of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

3. Mr. McCone mentioned the possibility that he might
go to Saigon next week to see what was going on out there. He
stated that we were not getting sufficient timely information
from the Ambassador and that while he and Mr. McNamara
might be going out later as a follow-up to their December trip,
he felt the need to go now. General Taylor pointed out that
there have been a great many visitors to Saigon in recent months
and perhaps we should give them a rest out there for a while.
In any event, he thought perhaps the newly-created NSAM com -
mittee headed by Sullivan would want to make such a trip. General
Taylor seemed reluctant to have Mr. McCone go at this time.
Mr. Johnson said he would take a look at it and be in touch with
Mr. McCone early next week.

4. The first item on the agenda was a discussion of
the Vance memo of 10 February on "Clandestine and Covert
Activities Against Cuba." Mr. Vance stated that he was strongly
for this course of action, that the risks were minimal, and that

13-00000

- 2
-

the JCS and Secretary McNamara also strongly supported it.
Mr. Johnson pointed out that he would be much happier if the
paper had been sent to the Cuban Coordinating Committee in
accordance with usual procedures. Mr. Vance stated that the
committee knows all about it and are for it. Mr. McCone
stated that he was disturbed over the trend of events in Cuba
and that this particular paper really does not go far enough.
He pointed out that our economic denial program was eroding
away and that the courses of action proposed by Mr. Vance's
memo gave Castro maximum grounds for righteous indignation
without really accomplishing anything. Mr. Vance stated that
prior activities in this regard had created great consternation
in Cuba, and Bundy challenged this and asked for proof. Mr.
McCone pointed out the many times that we have had to stand
down actions of this type in order to avoid raising the noise
level. General Taylor said that what we really must do is to
reaffirm the belief of the senior policy makers to the President
that a program of this type must be continued. Mr. Bundy
pointed out that the Secretary of Defense had previously stated
to the President, along with Secretary Rusk, that they were
not enthusiastic for this type of activity but he noted now that
Mr. McNamara had reversed his position. Bundy pointed out
that we have been somewhat hesitant to go ahead full force on
these actions because we did not want to prejudice our position
before the OAS in connection with the Venezuelan arms cache.
Mann stated that our entire program as regards Cuba was
ineffective insofar as it could result in any overthrow of Castro.
At about this point both Mr. Mann and Mr. McCone stated that
we should do everything possible to create provocations and
distressing actions against Castro. Bundy stated that the low
risk actions appear unrewarding and that rewarding actions have
too high a risk. Mann stated that we need to do a lot more
homework before the next OAS meeting (presently unscheduled)
and Bundy said in any event we must have a top-level Cabinet
Meeting with the President to discuss this whole matter. The
agenda item was left as follows:

a. Mann is to get the Crimmins staff hard at work
on the Vance paper and on other alternative courses
of action to include pros and cons, noise levels,
estimated results, etc.

13-00000

- 3
-

b. Mann is to send around a draft OAS resolution
which was prepared during Martin's time.

c. As to the specific paragraphs of the Vance
memo, Bundy indicated his personal views (not an
Administration commitment) that items 1 and 2a were
OK; 2b for Cuban ships only; 3a should be intensified;
3b and 3c were directly connected to a separate black-
list enterprise; 4 was OK. As for actions against
Cuban subversion in Latin America, on paragraph 1 we
should see just what our opportunities are, and on para-
graph 2 CIA should determine just what we think the
local traffic will bear and just what our capabilities
might be.

Finally, after a very short discussion on low-level reconnaissance
requirements for Cuba, General Taylor and Mr. McCone decided
to pay close attention to high-level results on Friday, Saturday,
and Sunday, and to take a fresh reading on the matter on Monday.
Action: DD/I to cover the low-level matter over the weekend,
DD/P to ride herd on the activities generated by the Vance memo.

5. The next item was a very cursory review of the
covert action programs for Japan, France, Tibet, Taiwan, and
China. Mr. Vance asked how we could measure the effectiveness
of such actions and Mr. McCone pointed out to him that this could
not be really adequately measured and gave all the reasons therefor.
Mr. Vance stated that he was just getting broken into this type of
activity and he would appreciate some briefings by the action
officers. (It was subsequently arranged through Pete Jessup to
have Colby and Bill O'Ryan make appointments with Secretary Vance
specifically to discuss French operations and our Far Eastern
operations.

6. Mr. McCone then brought up the matter of the SAC U-2
aircraft in Manila as covered in his memorandum of 13 February
which was not given any distribution. Mr. McCone said that ever
since 1954 it had been established policy that all reconnaissance
flights over denied and unfriendly territory or covert flights over

13-00000

-4-

friendly territory were a responsibility of the Director of
Central Intelligence with the customary approvals of the Special
Group and that he wished this policy reaffirmed and proper
direction be given so that the DCI would designate the organiza -
tion and resources to be used, either SAC or CIA. Mr. Vance
stated that NRO was involved and that upon receiving the urgent
requirement from CINCPAC for this single flight and upon
learning that the Taiwan assets were stood down because of fuel
control problems, the JCS, Mr. McNamara, and he had agreed
that SAC should fly the flight. He stated that Mr. McAfee of the
State Department had been informed on Sunday night and that
the Base Commander in the Philippines also knew about it. He
stated that there were only two targets concerned and that with
luck they could be obtained with a single flight. Mr. McCone
pointed out that the question had not been raised with him by
Steakley as to military aircraft or sanitized aircraft nor was he
aware of the cover plan that might be utilized in the event of
difficulties. Mr. Vance stated it would be the regular cover
plan of a weather ship off course. Vance said this was a one-
shot problem only and that as soon as it was completed, the
planes and crews would be withdrawn. He said both he and
McNamara were greatly surprised when they learned that SAC
had sent three airplanes and seven crews to perform this single
mission. He said they could understand the need for two air-
planes in case one aborted but certainly not this large contingent.
He said this had no connection with the South Vietnam broad
coverage mapping and that the Taiwan assets should be used for
this.

7. It was apparent that all were in agreement that the
Director of Central Intelligence had the responsibility for
approving requirements for photo coverage and for determining
the appropriate resources to be used for this coverage whenever
it required overflights of denied or hostile territory or whenever
it required covert flights over friendly territory. Mr. Bundy
stated that the DCI should prepare the necessary directive to
this effect and circulate it to the other members of the Special
Group for their approval at the next meeting. Action: DD/S&T

13-00000
6
5
to prepare for me by no later than noon Monday the simplest,
most concise, directive along the foregoing lines.

Marshall S. Carter
Lieutenant General, USA
Deputy Director

Distribution:
Original - DDCI
1 - Elder/Enright
Paras 1-5 to Mr. Paul Eckel DDP/SGO
Paras 6 & 7 - DD/S&T

13-00000

STORET
EYES CAY
18 January 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Disarmament Meeting on 18 January 1964
at the White House

Note: sy
して、
人
Tec 112
1. At 2:45 this date Mr. Alexis Johnson informed me that
there would be a meeting with the President at 3:15 p.m., in
the White House to discuss the most recent revision of his
proposed statement to the Geneva Conference, and that I was
expected to be there. Upon arriving at the meeting place I was
handed a draft by Adrian Fisher. It subsequently developed
that McNamara, Rusk, Taylor, and the President must have
had this draft for at least long enough to have thoroughly reviewed
and considered it. In any event, I read it immediately and was
struck by the fact that in those areas of the original draft as
given to Mr. McCone by Dr. Scoville in which the DCI had taken
exception, ameliorating language had been inserted in the new
draft to considerably temper and meet objections of Mr. McCone.
The draft was now much more a speech by the President as to
what he hoped might develop as a result of mutual give and take
rather than a statement of U. S. policy and definite intentions.

2. The President entered the room shortly, accompanied
by Bill Moyer and Jack Valenti. Others present were Rusk,
McNamara, General Taylor, Dr. Seaborg, Adrian Fisher, and
myself. Alexis Johnson was not present.

3. The President opened by stating that he had read the
revised draft and wanted to know if there were any objections to
it. Dr. Seaborg pointed out that he had some hesitancy about
opening totally his closed-down plants for international inspection
(paragraph 3, page 3) but that there were many ways of deter-
mining whether or not the reactor was in fact shut down
he
simply did not want to give carte blanche to inspectors overrunning
the entire plant. This position was adopted. Dr. Seaborg then

STORET
EYES CZY

13-00000

EREDET
FUS CY
2 -

said that he wanted it understood that the closing down of the
plants was not necessarily a permanent commitment and that
whenever it became necessary or desirable, in the absence
of international agreement to the contrary, we should retain
complete freedom of action to reopen a reactor any time we
chose. This position was agreed.

4. Mr. McNamara pointed out that he had been working
steadily the last few days to get agreement in the Pentagon on
a paper substantially in accord with this draft and that the only
thing that now gave them a problem was subparagraph (c) on
page 4 as to the establishment of nuclear-free zones. He said
if this could be deleted, the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the
Department of Defense would buy the paper. Their concern
was that we would get so involved in these zones that we would
lose freedom of action to shift nuclear weapons through the
Canal Zone, for example, or by air through overflights.
Secretary Rusk pointed out that they had discussed this a num-
ber of times before, that it was nothing new, and that he would
hope we could establish nuclear-free zones in Latin America
and Africa for example. The President said that when the
crunch came he depended on the Joint Chiefs of Staff and that
he must have them on his side. Accordingly the paragraph on
nuclear-free zones was eliminated.
A

5. I then stated that the President should know that there
was on record a letter from Mr. McCone pointing out some
problem areas that could develop in a number of these points,
particularly as to our getting back into a position of letting up
on the need for full and adequate verification. I further said
that aside from the intelligence aspects of the problem, there
were certain policy matters as regards reaction of West Germany,
and particularly France, that should be considered. The President
then asked for Mr. McCone's letter and glanced through it rather
hurriedly. General Taylor asked to see the letter and he did the
same. I then gave a copy to Secretary Rusk, particularly pointing
out those portions of DCI's letter concerning his membership on
the Committee of Principals and his reservations at the policy

SECRET
EYES COLY

13-00000

ה
EYES CMY
- 3 -

level. Mr. Rusk indicated he had seen Mr. McCone's letter.
(Subsequently Mr. Adrian Fisher stated that they had worked
all afternoon and most of the night in revising the original
draft to meet the objections raised by the DCI and he thought
that they had moderated their language and weasel-worded the
statement adequately to meet DCI's objections.) The President
then asked me if I had any specific, further objections to the
statement now that the nuclear-free zone problem had been
eliminated and that the DCI's letter was on record. I stated
that depending upon what was actually finally determined as an
international agreement, we might be in serious trouble on
verification but that this problem would come later. I felt that
as a statement by the President there was adequate protection
in future negotiations to ensure the best interests of the United
States. (I subsequently checked with Adrian Fisher who assured
me that there was no backoff in ACDA and State from the require-
ment for adequate verification and that the additional words
inserted in the latest draft were specifically to meet DCI's prior
objections. In other words, DCI's letter of comment is a matter
of record with the President and the other principals at the
meeting, and the President commented that the Central Intel-
ligence Agency was certainly a smooth-operating outfit. It was
obvious that he had his tongue in his cheek in this regard to
indicate that we not only covered our rear but our flanks as well.)
The President then directed a number of actions as regards
Congressional briefings, preparation of a talk for him to make
to the American public in explanation of his Geneva Conference
statement. In connection with this speech for American con-
sumption, he directed that it be prepared so that any tenant
farmer could understand it ten words per sentence, four sen-
tences per paragraph, and four-letter words throughout.
:
6. This ended discussion of the Geneva Conference statement.

7. New subjects:

a. There was then a discussion of a letter to Khrushchev
but I was not aware of the contents nor were the contents
mentioned. The discussion revolved around the date at which
such a letter would be made public.

13-00000

SEORET
EYES CLY
-4-

b. The President then expressed his great concern
over the emergent situation in Panama. He said that he
had proposed injecting himself directly into the problem
yesterday with a public statement and approaches to the
OAS specifically to lay down publicly exactly what the facts
were as regards Panamian aggression, intrusions into the
Zone, killing of American soldiers with rifle bullets by
snipers while they were armed only with bird shot, etc.,
etc. He said that he had been dissuaded from this course
by the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State and
others. He said he was shocked to read in this morning's
New York Times a story (presumably the Tad Szulc article)
that pretty well covered exactly what his proposals were.
He said he still felt it was a good idea and that he thought
Harriman, Rusk, McNamara, Johnson, and others should
assemble small groups of Latin American Ambassadors and
tell them what he, the President, wanted to tell them. He
thought it was an even better idea if he did it himself. I did
not get the impression that a decision was made in this
regard nor do I think any action will be taken as a result of
this meeting. Unfortunately the discussion centered then
on the security aspects of leaks