14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T
(When Filled In)

27 MAY 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR: DD/S-HB
ATTENTION : Mr. Joseph E. Murphy, Jr. GG 14
SUBJECT : PUGH, Robert West
#789 6567
08

1. Reference is made to your request dated 4 January 1966
wherein you requested a Covert Security Approval to permit Sub-
ject's use as First Officer in the Far East under Project HBILKA/
JBGREED.
12
2
C

2. In accordance with the provisions set forth in Clandestine
Services Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction
Field No. 10-5, a Covert Security Approval is granted for the use of
the Subject as described in your request as set forth in paragraph 1,
above.

3. Subjects of Covert Security Approvals are not to represent
themselves as, nor are they to be represented as, employees of CIA.

4. Your attention is called to the fact that a Covert Security
Approval does not constitute complete compliance with the provisions
of CIA Regulation 10-3. Therefore, if you should desire at a later
date to change the status or use of this individual, a request for
approval to cover any proposed change should be submitted to this
office.

5. This approval becomes invalid in the event the Subject's
services are not utilized within six months of the date of this
memorandum.

MICROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS
DESTROY AFTER USE
4/

Lenin (1. Rozt, for
Victor R. White
Deputy Director of Security

(IOS)
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Flaproduca

S-E-C-R-E-T
(When Filled-In)
GROUP I
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and declas-
sification.

---
14-00000

SECRET

27 MAY 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Executive Officer
Project HBILKA/JBGREED
SUBJECT : PUGH, Robert West
#789 6567
8

1. Reference is made to your request dated 4 January 1966
for a Covert Security Approval to permit Subject's use as a First
Officer in the Far East under Project HBILKA/JBGREED. Concurrent
with issuance of the approval, the following is offered for your
information.

2. Investigation has recently been completed with generally
favorable results. However, Subject's military file indicated that
he had been found unfit for duty due to excessive drinking, and
had been allowed to retire in the best interests of the Navy. His
Navy record stated that this drinking problem adversely affected
his judgement, reliability, and personal behavior. This weakness
had been discussed to no avail with Subject on several occasions.
It should be noted that domestic inquiries developed no indica-
tion of over-indulgence since his departure from the military on
October 1964.

3. Additionally, it was developed that Subject's brother
Bartholomew, aka: Bart PUGH, was the Subject of an FBI investi-
gation in 1941, which was conducted to resolve allegations regarding
the loyalty of Subject's brother. Subject's brother was determined
to have been associated with known Communists and was active in
Communist matters in the Los Angeles, California area during this
period of time. However, it was noted that these activities had
caused a break with this individual and his family, who were not
in sympathy with his viewpoints and activities. There was no

P
SECRET
GROUP 1:
Excluded from autumatic
dewa rading and
see Do
#45

---

C
14.00000

SECRET

information developed during the course of this investigation which
indicated any association between Subject and his brother.

4. Dissemination of the above information should be limited
to Staff and Project Officials on a strict "need to know" basis.

P.O'Connell
Howard J. Osborn
Director of Security
Cc: DD/S

SECRET
MICROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS
DESTROY AFTER USE

---
/PV
14-00000

DISPATCH

TO
Chief of Station, Taipei
INFO
FRO
SUBJECT
13-6

Chief, Far East
02
HEILKA/KUSODA
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
02
ATTN: Chief, HEILKA
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

1. A Covert Security Approval was granted IDSil on 27 May 1966 however the
following information is forwarded for your information.

Investigation has recently been completed with generally favorable results.
However IDEN's military file indicated that he had been found unfit for duty due to
excessive drinking, and had been allowed to retire in the best interests of the lavy.
His Navy record stated that this drinking problem adversely affected his judgment,
reliability, and personal behavior. This weakness had been discussed to no avail
with IDEN on several occasions. It should be noted that domestic inquiries developed
no indication of over-indulgence since his departure from the military in October 1964.
06

Additionally, it was developed that DKS's brother Bartholomew, oka: Bart,
vas the subject of an FBI investigation in 1941, which was conducted to resolve
allegations regarding the loyalty of IDEN's brother. IDEM's brother was determined
to have been associated with known Commmmists and vas active in Comamist matters in
the Los, Angeles, California area during this period of time. However, it was noted
that these activities had caused a break with this individual and his feadly, who vere
not in sympathy with his viewpoints and activities. There was no information developed
during the course of this investigation which indicated any association between ITEN
and his brother.

2. Dissemination of the above information should be limited to Staff and
Project Officials on a strict "need to know" basis.

Attachment:
IDEN (u/s/c)
Distribution:
Orig & 2 - Addressee
HUGH C. PARDEE
DOC# 04589
MICROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS
DESTROY AFTER USE

---
/PV
14-00000
1.  A Covert Security Approval Approva was granted IKH on 27 May 1966 however the
following information is forwarded for your information.

Investigation has recently been completed with gemerally favorable results.
However IDEN's military file indicated that he had been found unfit for for duty due to
excessive drinking, and had been allowed to retire in the best interests of the lavy.
His Navy record stated that this drinking problem adversely affected his judgment,
reliability, and personal behavior. This veakness had been discussed to nail
with IDEN on several occasions. It should be noted that domestic inquiries developed
no indication of over-indulgence since his departure from the military in October 1964.

Additionally, it was developed that IDEN's brother Bartholomew, aka: Bart,
was the subject of an FBI investigation in 1941, which was conducted to resolve
allegations regarding the loyalty of IDEN's brother. DEW's brother was determined
to have been associated with known Communists and was active in Commmist matters in
the Los, Angeles, California area during this period of time. However, it was noted
that these activities had caused a break with this individual and his family, who were
not in sympathy with his viewpoints and activities. There was no information developed
during the course of this investigation which indicated any association betusen IIEN
and his brother.
است

2.  Dissemination of the above information should be limited to staff and
Project Officials on a strict "need to know" basis.

Attachment:
IDEN (u/s/c)
Distribution:
Orig & 2- Addressee

CROSS REFERENCE TO
MICROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS
DESTROY AFTER USE
HUGH C. PARURE
10-19
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
22
FCTB 8572
SECRET
CLASSIFICATION
DATE 14 JUL 1960
13 July 1966
HOS FILE NUMBER
OFFICE.....
10/8-3
OFFICER
ORIGINATING
TYPIST
COORDINATING
OFFICE SYMBOL
DATE
Distribution:
1-08/D/1
1- 10/8-13
08/ID/1
JETAMI
28
3/11/
FORM 53
1:03
USE PREVIOUS EDITION
OFFICER'S NAME
7/13/14 2751
DATE
(40)
JUL
968.
RELEASIDIG
OFFICERS SATURE
EXT.
6869
s
DISPATCH

---
2/月
14
SECRET
IDENTITY SHEET
C
UNDER SEPARATE COVER ATTACHME
FCIS-8572
22

FOR.
03
MR. ROBERT WEST PUCH
RYGAT
MICROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS
DESTROY AFTER USE

---
14-00000

7/PV
2
10/4/66
108 Chung Shan Road, North, 2nd Section
Taipei, Taiwan
REC'D WAS OCT 4 1966
PND-DP-66/4427
03
Mr. R. W. Pugh
Taipei, Taiwan 13-6
03
Dear Fr. Pugh
27 September 1966

This letter will confirm acceptance of your resigna-
tion effective 27 September 1966 at the close of business.

A final pay check representing any unpaid salary due
you less any debits you may have on the Company books will be
forwarded to your bank:

Bank of America
4th Street 08
Santa Rosa, California.

You have given us your forwarding address as:

(756 Baird Road 08
Santa Rosa, California
U.S.A
We thank you for your past service and wish you
success in the future.

Sincerely yours,

David R. Traylor
Director of Personnel
i/cc: Paymaster
CC
ssistant for Personnel via HDR, Prasseint
03
Fr.... W. Pun P/O TAC, 503 8 February 1966
03
Fr. Figh resigned effective 27 September 1966 cob.
He indicated to us that he wished to quit flying and
go home.
MICROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS
DESTROY AFTER USE

---
14-00000
SECRET
REQUEST FOR CANCELLATION
FROM: (Division) (Case officer) (Extension)
DD/S-HB J.M.Clark 6862
NAME SHOWN:193

TO:
CHIEF
OS/ID/1
SUBJECT'S NAME (Pseudo, crypt or true may be used)
03
Pugh, Robert West
CI/OA NO.
08
!
789656
DATE OF BIRTH
Unknown
REASON(S) FOR CANCELLATION
TRUE
201 NO.
PLACE OF BIRTH
08
789 656
PROJECT
02
JBGREED
GENT'S SERVICE RECORD
IS ATTACHED
CRYPT
BILL BE FORWARDED
Unknown

02
Subject has resigned his employment with HEILKA.
MICROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS
DESTROY AFTER USE

DATE
SIGNATURE
201-789656
for Jack U. Clark
68
SUBJECT IS USED IN ANY CAPACITY, A NEW REQUEST FOR APPROVAL WILL BE SUBMITTED TO CI/OA
SECRET
FORM 937 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITION.
4591
(5/円)
2-56

---
4-00000円

SECRET
REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION
(Alwaye handcarry I copy of this form)
PLEASE COMPLETE EACH SECTION AND APPROPRIATE BLANK
APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
T
DATE
4 January 1966
TO:
FROM:
CI/OPERATIONAL: APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

CHIEF INVESTIGATION AND SUPPORT DIVISION. OFFICE OF SECURITY
CHIEF PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION. OFF ICE OF SECURITY
DD/S-HB
SUBJECT:
03
PROJECT
02
(True name)
(PUCH, Robert West
JEGREED
CRYPTONYM, PSEUDONYM, AKA OR ALIASES
CI/OA FILE NO.
XX
RI 201 FILE NO
SO FILE NO.
201-789 656
1. TYPE ACTION REQUESTED
PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL
COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL
CONTRACT TYPE A
PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
COVERT NAME CHECK
SPECIAL INQUIRY (SO field investigation).
CONTRACT TYPE B

SPECIFIC AREA OF USE
Far East (General)
FULL DETAILS OF USE

02
First Officer, HEILKA.
Phr
MICROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS
DESTROY AFTER USE
4. INVESTIGATION AND COVER
A. U.S. GOVERNMENT. INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING. INVESTIGATION?

B. CIA INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?

C. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM?

D. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HIM?

E. INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE IN THE INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT..

F. SUGGEST "COVER PRETEXT" TO BE USED IN CONDUCTING PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

G. DO YOU PLAN TO MAKE SUBJECT WITTING OF AGENCY OR GOVERNMENT INTEREST?
IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA. EXPLAIN FULLY

5. PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS
PRO 1. OR EQUIVALENT. IN (2) COPIES ATTACHED
PRO 11. OR EQUIVALENT, IN (1) COPY ATTACHED
PRO II WILL BE FORWARDED
YES
NO
YES
NO
NO RECORD
NO RECORD
:
NO RECORD
GREEN LIST ATTACHED, NO:
6. RI TRACES
WILL FORWARD
NON-DEROGATORY.
DEROGATORY ATTACHED
7. DIVISION TRACES.
WILL FORWARD
:::
NON-DEROGATORY
DEROGATORY ATTACHED
8. FIELD TRACES
VILL FORWARD
:
NO DEROGATORY INFO.
LIST SOURCES CHECKED
DEROGATORY ATTACHED
SIGNIFICANT INFORMATION ATTACHED
NOT INITIATED (Explanation)
SIGNATURE OF CASE OFFICER
EXTENSION
SIGNATURE OF BRANCH CHIEF
JOSKPH E. MURPHY
6862
H/P
FORM
2-63
SECRET
EDITIONS.
11500
