14-00000
104-10179-10134

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

VENOJITILU MEJOMIC
54201-239218 30
SECRET
2
:
ROUTING

TODIRECTOR
R
FROM: PARIS
ACTION: SAS 8 (SAS NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT 1735 19 JUN DO)
INFO: DOP, CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, FI, RI/AN, WE 4, WI 7, S/C. 2
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Nos Poproduce
walls AND GREEN COFLES
KAICHED
INS3271
SECRETI
77272
KPRITY DIR INFO PRITY MAOR SJAN WAVE ROUTINE BRUS CITE PARI 9068
TYPIC
REF A PARI 2008 (1) 61964)*
B PARI 9049 (NOT SENT SJAN BRUSO
19 JUN 1963
LIN (03094)
1. RAY CONTACTED BY JERVAY (UNDER IDEN A ALIAS) 17 AND 18
(IN 567CA)
JUNE IN ADDITION CONTACTS REPORTED PARA ONE PARI 8824 RAY HAS
02
A
ALSO BEEN IN CONTACT UNRUMBLE 6. UNPAPIST, AND AT LEAST ONE CON-
TACT WITH AMSPORT 1. RAY DESIGNATED UNRUMBLE 6 AS HIS CONTACT
oz
02
:
MAN PARI. JERVAY NOT INTRODUCED BUT WILL CONTACT SHORTLY. STA
302
حن
FEELS THIS IS GOOD MOVE SINCE UNRUMBLE 6 APPEARS BE GOOD MAN AND
HAS APPROACHED EMB IN PAST SEPARATELY FRON UNRUMBLE 2 VITH SONE
INTERESTING PLANS. STA DID NOT APPROACH HIN DIRECTLY IN PAST
02.
BECAUSE DID NOT WANT TO DISTURB RELATIONSHIP WITH UNRUMBLE 2.
02
UNOBLE 2 VILL NEVERTHELESS, BE VITTING UNRUMBLE 6 CURRENT
RELATIONSHIP. RAY WAS DRIVEN AIRPORT BY ALBERTO BREZ VITO
UBON RAY SPENT MUCH TIME AND WHO SEENS BE CLOSEST TO RAY AMONG
HIS CONTACTS PARIS
CABRERA DID NOT PHONE OR COND PARIS OVER WEEKEN
CONTINUE MONITOR DEVELOPMENTS THROUGH JUNRUN BLE
IM AUTOMATIC DO子
D-OFCLASSIFICATION.
Copy
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

14-00000
하지
R
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
CLAFY ΤΟ ΓΙΓ
SECRET
IN
632
PAGE 2
ASSOL RAY BELIEVES CABRERA VILL WORK ON ARCOS BUT SAYS MAN WHO
SIGARE
COULD REALLY DO THE JOB IS ARCOS UNCLE WHO IN PUERTO RICO AND
KNOWN TO RAY. HE COULD NOT REMEMBER NANE OR EXACT RELATIONSHIP
1 PLANS CONTACT HIM ON RETURN AND GROOM HIM FOR TASK. RAY ASKED
BE INFORMED WHEN ARCOS RETURNS BRUS.
24
4. KUBARK STAFFERCIDEN (IDEN B) OF CONGRESS OF CULTURAL FREEDOM
NET RAY AT LEAST TWICE. EXCELLENT RAPPORT. HE ARRANGED RAY'S
PRESS INTERVIEW WITH GUILLON DE MOULINS (INCORRECTLY REPORTED
CIN 60159)
IN PARA FIVE PARI 8947) OF LE MONDE. ALSO ARRANGED DINNER 63
JUNE. WAS NONCOMMITAL BUT ENCOURAGING ABOUT JOB POSSIBILITY FOR
FRANQUI SHOULD HE DEFECT.
6.
Oz
24
5. RAY SEEMS TO BE CONFIDENT FRANQUI WILL JOIN HIS CAMP IN
NOT TOO DISTANT FUTURE AND RELYING ON CABRERA TO CONTINUE WORK-
ING ON HIM. STA NOT SO CONVINCED AND PLANS PROCEED ALONG LINES
(IN 63152)
DIR 48158 AND PARI 9067 (NOT SENT SJAN. BRUS).
A
B
POSSIBLE REFERENCE TO GUEDE TALK WITH FRANQUI IS IN IN 8 8 JUNE JUNE
(UNSOX. AMB GRAMATGES MENTIONS TO SINOBAS THAT MARIO (PRESUMABLY
THIRD SECY MARIO GRACIA VARELA) CALLED FROM THE EXHIBITION SAYING
THAT SOME ANTI-CASTRO ELEMENTS WERE ABOUT AND THAT FRANQUI ASKED
FOR SONE MORE PEOPLE FROM THE EMBASSY TO BE AROUND THE EXHIBITION
2,
-702
24
ALSO 12 VEINE UNSIERRA UNSNAFU 12 COMMENTS TO UNSNAFU 16 THAT
SORE GUSANOS VERE AT THE PHOTOGRAPHIC EXHIBITION AND THE FRENCH
FOLICE WENT BY CUBAN END TO ASK IF THEY SHOULD GUARD THE EXHIBIT.
HOVEVER THIS LATTER PROBABLY NOT REFERENCE TO GUEDE OTHER THAN
THIS STA HAS NO INDICATION FRANOUI HAS TALKED ABOUT
7. BAY FEELS TRIP EUROPE WAS VERY PROFITABLE. DES THE FACT
HE HAS NO FIRM COMMITMENT FROM FRANQUI, CABRERA OR ARCOS HE
SECRET

14-00000
2/17/
R
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
IN 63271
PAGE 3
SEENS CONFIDENT THEY WILL JOIN HIM EVENTUALLY. HE FEELS HE HAS
TIGHTENED UP AND INSPIRED HIS "ORGANIZATION" PARIS. SAYS HAS
1
GAINED OMPRESSION FROM TALKS WITH CUBANS HERE THAT DISILLUSION-
MENT AMONG CUBAN EMBASSIES AND OFFICIALS INSIDE CUBA HAS GROWN
CONSIDERABLY. RAY CONVINCED IT POSSIBLE TO OVERTHROW CASTRO
CLEANLY AND SIMPLY. WANTS DEVOTE OWN APPARATUS TO IDENTIFYING
DISAFFECTED ELEMENTS IN CUBA AND BUILDING UP SUPPLY APPARATUS IN
AND OUTSIDE CUBA TO SERVE THEN.
8. RAY ASKED FOR FOLLI
2
A. UP TO DATE LIST OF PERSONNEL AND ADDRESS OF ALL CUBAN.
EMBASSIES IN EUROPE TO BE PASSED HIM IN SJAN AND UNRUMBLE 6 IN
PARIS. HE WANTS BEGIN MAILING PROPAGANDA AND LETTERS TO STIMU-
LATE FURTHER DISAFFECTION PERSONNEL.
02
B. TRAINING OF HIMSELF IN SJAN AND UNRUMBLE 6 PARI IN
IDENTICAL SV SYSTEM WHICH THEY CAN USE FOR CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN
SJAN AND PARI AND ALSO INTO CUBA. STA FELT BOTH THESE IDEAS
SHOULD BE ENCOURAGED AND RAY WAS TOLD COULD BE DONE. VOULD
APPRECIATE HOS PROVISION OF ITEM A AND DESIGNATION OF SV SYSTEM.
C. RAY ALSO ASKED WE LINE UP JOB FOR CABRERA AS EUROPE REP
SOME PAPER AS DISCUSSED WITH NAUMAN PER PARI 6947. VOULD APPRE-
CIATE HOS FOLLOWUP ON THIS.
9. FEEL ONE SOLID ACCOMPLISHMENT OF RAY'S TRIP VAS RE-ES-
TABLISHMENT DE WORKING RELATION VETH BAY. BELIEVE HE HET IT OFF
VELL WITH NAUMAN GROVERY AND JERVAY AND GAINED CONFIDENCE OUR
SUPPORT WHICH MAY ALLEVIATE SOMEWHAT SOME PAST PROBLENS KUBARK
RELATIONSHIP,
16. INDEX. C/S COMMENT: RAY DEPARTING PARI AF 015 ARRIVING NY 1300 HOURS 18
SECRET
SECRET
