14-00000,

104-10226-10117
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CLA HEADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: 100-5-1

INCLUSIVE DATES: AUG. 62- DEC. 63

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY MATERIAL

DATE  DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

14-00000
Pre-dates
HSCA request

(all 3rd Agency)

14-00000
UNCLASSIFIED. INTERNAL CONFIDENTIAL SECRET
USE ONLY
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:
DC/03/JPriebe

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and
building)
DATE OFFICER'S COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
INITIALS to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)
RECEIVED FORWARDED
1. DO/SR 30/7
2. DO/SAT
3. SR/CI/BBright AUG1 2- This information was sent to
Staff recently and has
probably been forwarded to you
for reply. Though you might
4. Joon be able to use this extra copy.
5.
6. CSR/CI/K ENLARGED FROM RID/FI
7. Dolores OR
8. EE/G/CE-Wagen 19/8 I sonate in memo...
Schroeden apparent BIND
approach a subsequent
9. SR/CI/K
Sou, ausach.Cous

10.
Felife bower
Spotid o

11. SR/CI/A IGB?

12. Joon 8 to 9: Looks like RIS was
on him first, but they
have sent Felt
(KJA 19
(or another)
at him for
they
for Secrintment attit elipt.
4
13.
RIDIAN
-RI/MIS
RID/files

14.

610
AISE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL UNCLASSIFIED
USE ONLY. 100-5-1
14-00000
CLOFET SENSITIVE

5 July 1963
Chief, CI Staff/L
2 C 48 Про

Chief, Contact Division, CO

Attempted RIS Penetration of Bell Telephone Laboratories - BI-10612

1. Attached are two memorunda, dated 21 June 1963, from
car New York Field Office concerning apparent Ria interest
in Manfred R. Schroeder and Donald E. Thomas, Bell Telephone
Laboratories, Murray Hill, New Jersey. We believe this informa
tion should be passed to the FBI immediately. We would ap
preciate being advised the date this information is forwarded
to the Bureau.

2. For your information, permission to brief Dr. Schroeder
prior to his trip to the USSR was requested by our New York
Office but refused by FI Staff. In view of his employment, how-
ever, and previous CD/00 contacts with him, FI recommended he
be provided with a strong defensive and realities briefing.

3. Further inquiry may be directed to Mrs. Shirley Stetson,
cn/08, Depart Branch, Room 413, 1717 8 Street, H. W., extension
2268.
Canos. 7701
1816-3

Reales: As stated above
K. M. AIRCRAFT
SBStetson/m
80 100 100-5-1
Για

30 JULY 63
CS COPY 100-5-1

SECRET SENSITIVE - info
14-00000
SECRET
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

TO Chief, Contact Division DATE: 1 July 1963
Attn Mc Connell/Czajkowski/Lincoln Staff
FROM Chief, New York Office
SUBJECT: Attempted R.I.S. Penetration of Bell Telephone Labs

Ref: II Reports 2988-3 and 2989-3

1. We thought the attached reports would be of interest to Lincoln
Staff from a Soviet realities standpoint. We also felt that they should
be brought to the attention of Division management because the M.O. out-
lined therein is becoming a major factor in dealing with sources who have
contact with Sovbloc nationals. It has been our experience that the type
of activity outlined has been on a marked increase, particularly since
the establishment of the KGB 10th Directorate. Although such activity
by Sov legals is taking place throughout the continental U.S., undoubtedly
its greatest impact is being felt in the New York and Washington, D.C.
areas because of the large Soviet Government establishments in both of
these cities. For this reason it would seem imperative that both WAFO
and NYFO be extremely vigilant for such activity in companies and insti-
tutions with which they are dealing in order that it may be recognized
in its earliest stages and appropriate CI/CE countermeasures instituted.
In order to assist other offices in this respect, we plan to write in the
near future an article for the Division Newsletter, outlining some of our
experiences along these lines.

2. We were somewhat disappointed in CI Staff's reaction to our
recent request for assistance in defensive briefing of the subject of
one of the attached reports. It seems to be quite clear now that our
original assumption concerning his being R.I.S. targeted was quite correct
and that there is a strong likelihood that his current trip behind the
Curtain vill be utilized by the opposition for provocation and/or an
actual recruitment attempt. We wonder in future cases of this nature
exactly what support we may expect from Angleton's shop. Although we
feel that we have a fair capability for handling such matters here in
New York, we do admit that, at least on this one, we would have felt
slightly more comfortable had a CI specialist been along, if for no other
reason than to preclude any possible Monday morning quarterbacking by the
"old pros."

SECRET 10612

14-00000
SECRET
-2-
Subject: Attempted R.I.S. Penetration of Bell Telephone Labs

3. Judging by the attached material, it would appear that, despite
established Bell policy (see our 16 May memorandum re Case 39,790), the
opposition has seen fit to deflower at least two of Bell's scientific
virgins. We serjously wonder at this point just how many other Bell
people might be in the same boat. Perhaps, as a result of all this,
some representation by Bell management to the KGB will be forthcoming,
spelling out to that organization, as was spelled out to our own, estab-
lished company policy pertaining to such matters. In any event, it would
appear that at least one or two Bell scientists, and there are probably
more, have been giving the R.I.S. more cooperation and reporting than the
Agency. Let's hope that in the near future Bell management takes some
effective steps to rectify this rather ludicrous, and patently dangerous,
situation.

Attachments: I Reports 2988-3
and 2989-3
JAY B. L. REEVES

Chagle/ng

10612
SECRET

14-00000

Memorandum
SEROBICE
TO
Attn
: Chier, Contact Division.
: Support (Chirley Stetson)
DATE. 26 June
FROM
Chief, New fork Office
Apparent KIS Interest in Manfred Pr
stapper:
Bell Telephone La>
201-734194
(201-734194)

1:
11 0930-1230 hours 14 June, Manfred A. Schroeder of Bell Labs
received a strong defensive briefing in correction with his June -
July trip to the USSK and sulguria (see our 7ay Coordination Out-
line for subject). During Schroeder's briefing, Nagle elicited
from him that prior to a trip to the USSR in 1959 he had been con-
tacted by an individual who represented himsel se a West Germaτι
Intelligence Officer. More important, we also learned that, ut
about the same time, RIS cultivation of Schroeder apparently began.

2. Concerning the West German approach, Schroeder indicated
that his mother, who resides in Hamburg, wa, telephoned in 1959 by
an individual who claimed to be an old acqur.intance of her son's
and who was interested in contacting hin concerning employment in
the US. The caller left a phone number and said that he would ap-
preciate il if Schroeder could call him neze time he was in Haaturg.
Schroeder's mother relayed the message to her con, and, as requested,
he telephoned the caller just prior to his ン USSR junket. The
individual he called identified himself as a West German intelligence
Officer and said that he would like to oder as coon as
possible. Schroeder agreed. When they met, the individual in question
(Schroeder does not recali his name) presented suitable credentiale
and expressed interest in Senroeder's trip to the USSR. According to
Schroeder's account, the West German Intelligence Officer gave him the
old "keep your eyes and ears open" pitch, and old him that he would
contact him in the first West German city in which he touched down
after his USSR trip. Schroeder was conducted in Stuttgart promptly
after returning to Germany from the US on his way back to the US.
Because of his US employment and the fact that Bell paid for his trip,
Schroeder became very apprehensive about any further contact with the
West German service and at the time of the call indicated that he had
nothing to say and wanted no further contact. Other than the cursory
examination of credentials (us reported above), Schroeder made no
attempt to establish the bona fides of the German who made the approach.
We pointed out to Schroeder the unlikely possibility that the approach
might not have been Lone fide and might, in fact, have been a provo-
cation.
* Cogheytached.

SECRET 10612
SENSITIVE

14-00000
SENSITIVE

A interest.

3. Apparently R.I.S. ultivation .

prior the above incident. According to him

received what appeared to be a routine invitation vis

acoustics Ocilities in Mosconti lengrad in a

connection witi. the invitin wrote. Sav
that during his visit he would like to m

Sov acoustics engineer who was very interest

and ind done sever Russian trainlong of

a result of this corresponience, Scaronder receives

ut his home a couple of days prior ti dejartcy
from an individual who lede

In New York. The caller told me

de haure
:i:

Tor delivery this spel

of the Stat
Cort.10.

caller, whose na Schect

Like to deliveα.
:
Schroeder in a
which he had t

thor comida
