104-10215-10004
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

COOTET

25 June 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Central Cover Staff
ATTENTION : Charlie Danish
SUBJECT : Ross CROZIER
REFERENCE : SAS Memorandum Dated 14 May 1963

1. Referenced memorandum requested the Subject be provided with
military cover while assigned in the Headquarters area for operational
and credit purposes in the performance of his duties with SAS. It is
understood that your office was reluctant to issue the Subject the
necessary military cover because he was physically located in a DODS
office which was under commercial cover.

2. As indicated verbally on 24 June 1963, SAS will move the
Subject out of the DODS area on 26 June. SAS has also requested suit-
able office or apartment space through the Office of Logistics from
which the Subject will operate in the future. Until this property is
acquired, the Subject will perform his duties from his home. Conse-
quently, it is requested that imediate attention be given to providing
the Subject with the necessary military cover. Refer any questions to
Q. A. LADKER, Jr., SAS/Security, ext. 5909.

Distribution:
Orig & 1 Addressee
1- SAS/Security
SAS/Security:GALadner:ftk - 25 June 1963

Desmond FitzGerald
Chief, SAS

SECRET
201-168881

19 June 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Central Cover Staff
Room 1-B-24 Headquarters Building
SUBJECT : Request for Domestic Cover
Mr. Ross Lester Crozier
REFERENCE : Form 1322, forwarded to your Office,
14 May 1963

1. It is requested that this Office be advised as
to the disposition of our request dated 14 May 1963 for
providing Mr. Ross Lester Crozier appropriate Domestic
Cover.

2. Since security requirements prohibit Mr. Crozier
from being located in the Headquarters Building, he has
been provided an office in the DODS Area. Subject needs
"Cover" as soon as possible, for credit purposes,
employment, etc.

3. Your prompt attention to this matter would be
appreicated.

Desmond FitzGerald
Chief, Special Affairs Staff

cc: DODS
DDP/SAS/PERSONNEL / J. ALBERT HOESERIKCE (19 June (63)
Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1- DOPS
1- SAS/Personnel

SECRET
201-168881

SECRET
REQUEST FOR DOMESTIC COVER LIST ENTRY OR CHANGE

SUBMIT THIS FORM IN TRIPLICATE, ENCLOSED IN SEALED ENVELOPE
TO Central Cover Staff DATE
THROUGH:
SUBJECT: Mr Ross Lastex,, Crosion 14 May 1963
ENTRY CHANGE

Inclusion of subject on the Subject is currently included on
Domestic Cover List is requested the Dozestic Cover List. For the
for the reason noted below. When reason noted below, it is requested
notified that cover has been es- that
tablished, subject will be specif- 
ically authorized and instructed to this employee be removed from
conceal his Agency affiliation. the Domestic Cover List.

the following change be made:

REASON
Request subject be provided Military Cover (Army) while assigned in
Headquarters Ares for operational and credit purposes in performance
of his duties with 548.

Note: Subject was formerly under commercial cover at JMHAVE prior
to January 1963.

TYPE COVER COVER (Complete only for new entries)
IN USE

TYPE SUGGESTED
(Specify whether
officiel or non-
official)
IF NO COVER
IN USE

JUSTIFICATION, IF
MON-OFFICIAL COVER
SUCCESTED

APPROVED BY CENTRAL COVER DIVISION
SIGNATURE SIGNATURE REQUESTING OFFICIAL

ORVILLE C. DAWSON
DATE TITLE
Chief, 848/Personnel
FORM 201-16871
7-58 1322 OBSOLETE PACIOUS Caltions. SECRET (36)

SECRET
(When Filled in)
DD/P PERSONNEL DATA SHEET

NAME: CREIER, Ross AGE: :E? April 1963
DOB: 20 June 1922
STATION H23.
AND DUTIES: PRIMARY CAREER CARGER O'T
DD/P UNIT: LESIGNATION:

PRESENT GRADE: GS-12 PRESENT T/O SLOT NA
PROPOSED GRADE: NA NUMBER AND GRADE: NA
CIA TRAINING:

PROPOSED T/O SLOT NA
NUMBER AND GRADE: NA
EDUCATION: Wife: Costa Rican citizen, 203: 15 Mar 1913
Son: D03: Sept 1747.5. Citizen.
LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: DAU: FOB: 24 June 1951U.S. Citizen
Spanish (Fluent - writing/reading/speaking)
ASSESSED: DATE: TYPE OF POSITION: RESULTS:

EXPERIENCE PRIOR TO CIA (excluding SSU-OSS):
U.S. Army and U.S. Air Force, Tech Sgt. (1940-1945: Intelligence BC)) & (April 46 - Apr 49)
Leading man labor, $12.3% per day, US Naval Air Station, Coco Solo, Canal Zone;
(Jan. 1946-April 1946).

SUMMARY OF CIA-SSU-OSS ASSIGNMENTS INCLUDING PREVIOUS GRADES AND DATES:
Contract and career agent since June 1949 - Intelligence assigments in Costa Rica,
Guatemala, and Jubas (Foreign Intelligence with some Psychological Warfare and
Paramilitary) FI mission with Castro's forces in Siem Maestra (April 58).
Hexico City Jan 59 to May 1960; assigned to PPA-PROP From June 60 to Oct 61;
Assigned FCS TE Oct 1 to Jan 1963. (Case Officer on student project involving
propaganda and area intelligence collection & network operation; CO on press
placement and press collection project).

RECOMMENDED BY: CONCURRENCES:

RECOMMENDATION OF CAREER SERVICE BOARD:

FORM NO. 201-16881
MAR $7 965 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS. SECRET (4)

TRAVEL OKLER
SECRET
1. X TDY
-JEOD OFFICE TRAVEL ORDER NO
PCS SAS-473-63
INVITATIONAL
Mr. Foss L. Crozier
Washington, D. C. 6576 Career Acent
YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR NECESSARY EXPENSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS, THIS TRAVEL
OR CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION, IF SO DESIGNATED, IS MADE FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL
CONVENIENCE.
From washington, D. C. to RTC for approximately three (3) days Tot and return.

HODE: Air tourist/ce
PURPOSE: Operacional contacts

TRAVEL DURATION
BEGIN / PER DIEM ALLOWANCE AUTOMOBILE ALLOWANCE
END DOMESTIC FOREIGN CENTS PER MI.
NOT TO EXCEED CENTS PER ML
19 Har 63 22 Mar 63 16.00 S MAXIMUM OTHER (See below) COST BY COM- AS MORE
MON CARRIER ADVANTAGEOUS
TO GOVT.
ALLOWANCES AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS WITH REASONS

DEPENDENT TRAVEL AUTHORIZED
HAME DATE OF BIRTH RELATIONENIP
ACCOMPANY TRAVELER
FOLLOW WITHIN & MONTHS
ADVANCE RETURN
COORDINATION
SIGNATURE TITLE & COMPONENT
FORM 540 OBSOLETE
3-59
EDITIONS.
MFG. s-ca
PROCURE TRANSPORTATION BY ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL
TRANSPORTATION REQUEST $100.00
CASH OR OTHER
DISPOSITION OF EFFECTS
AUTHORIZATION
SHIPMENT
NONTEMPORARY
STORAGE
SHIPMENT POA AUTHORIZED
EXCESS BAGGAGE AUTHORIZED
ACCOMPANIED
LES. AND MOOK
UNACCOMPANIED
LBS. AND MODE
ADVANCE OF FUNDS REQUESTED I CERTIFY FUNDS ARE AVAILABLE
YER$100.00 ACCOUNTING DUE DATE OBLIGATION REFERENCE NO.
NO 473-63
CHARGE COST CENTER NO.
3132-1000-1000
DATE SIGNATURE OF B&F OFFICER

REQUESTING OFFICIAL
DATE TYPED NAME AND TITLE COMPONENT
VINCENT J, FISTHAN, Chief SAS/Support
SIGNATURE DATE

AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL
TYPED NAME AND TITLE COMPONENT
DESMOND FITZGERALD, Chief SAR
SIGNATURE DATE

SECRET march '63
201-168881
(28-46)

13 kareh 1003
KELOLANDUM CR: Chief, finance Division
Chief, Staff Agent Accounts Sective
THROUGH : Chief, Contract Personnel Division
SUBJECT : Detasiposent of Career Agent -
Harold 3. NORMAYA

This is to advise you that Career Agent Harold E.
MORTR3 reassigned ICS froa JHAVE to the Fashington,
5. C. area on 21 January 1963.

BOARD J.
Chief, /support
DDP/SAS/Personnel/John H. Martin/ket (13 Mar 63)
Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - C/CPD
1 - SAS/Pers

201-168881
