104-10338-10018 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

-SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

OCI No. 1586/64

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
Office of Current Intelligence
4 June 1964

CURRENT INTELLIGENCE MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT: Cuban Subversion in Latin America
Since July 1963

1. Cuban subversive efforts in Latin America
are continuing at a steady pace, despite recent
major setbacks in such countries as Venezuela and
Brazil. From July 1963 through December, when
Havana evidently believed a "second Cuba" was likely
in Venezuela, Cuban propaganda stressed the inevi-
tability of Castro-inspired revolutions in the
hemisphere. Since the first of this year, however,
Cuban leaders have muted direct exhortations to vio-
lence and have emphasized other policy priorities.
Nevertheless, the Cuban potential for subversion in
Latin America remains high.

2. In his speech of 26 July 1963, Castro re-
captured much of the militant tone of his speeches
in late 1962. He made it clear that he regards
Cuba as the main source of inspiration and guidance
for inevitable revolutions in the rest of Latin
America. He claimed that what has been done in
Cuba can take place "exactly the same way in many
Latin American countries." The hemisphere's mili-
tants, he said, must take advantage of conditions
presently favoring revolution and "open the breach."
On 28 September, Castro said that while "imperial-
ists believe they can destroy the Cuban revolution,"
the Cubans believe that before that could be accom-
plished "many other revolutions like ours will ap-
pear on the continent." On 24 November, Che
Guevara said the spreading of revolution in the
hemisphere "is also our responsibility and it is
part of our daily preoccupation."

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
SECRET

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

3. What emerged from these and other Cuban
pronouncements was the apparent conviction of
Castro and his aides that further Communist revolu-
tions in Latin America are inevitable, that Cuba
can speed up the process, and that in Cuba's own
interest it is urgent that revolutionary action be
initiated wherever possible and as soon as pos-
sible. It is logical to assume that despite recent
official soft-pedaling of the issue, the basic
Cuban viewpoint remains the same. Cuban leaders
continue to believe that the very presence of their
regime will inspire other Latin American revolu-
tionaries to action, and undoubtedly will continue
to give assistance to these efforts.

4. Cuba's policy of revolution in the hemi-
sphere has suffered severe defeats, however, since
the 3-ton Cuban arms cache was discovered on a
Venezuelan beach on 1 November 1963. For example,
OAS action stemming from that discovery is pending;
despite the Cuban-supported terrorist campaign,
constitutional government in Venezuela was success-
fully transferred following President Leoni's dra-
matic election victory last December; and the out-
breaks of violence in Panama last January failed to
upset constitutional processes there. The April re-
volt in which President Goulart of Brazil was over-
thrown was also a severe defeat for Havana. These
reverses may have produced a feeling in Havana that
a breathing spell is necessary. In addition, Castro
may have been cautioned to moderate his revolutionary
tactics when he visited the USSR last January. This
year has been designated "the year of the economy."
This and Cuba's all-out campaign to obtain needed
commercial and industrial goods from West
also may be factors prompting Havana to lessen its
public expressions of support for revolution. More-
over, Castro may believe that a soft-pedaled policy
on revolution now may pay dividends after the US
elections in November. He probably assumes that
conditions for a US-Cuban modus vivendi--on his
terms--will be more favorable then.

5. Nevertherless, evidence presented in the
accompanying country-by-country index shows that
Cuba has continued since the first of the year to
promote, finance, and otherwise support pro-Castro
groups and individuals in Argentina, Brazil, (be-
fore the April revolt), Chile, Panama, British

2

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
-SECRET

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Guiana, and other countries. Indeed, on at least
two recent occasions, Che Guevara was quoted as
restating familiar Cuban views on revolution. In
an interview published in an Italian newspaper in
March, Guevara reiterated that the road to "national
liberation" in Latin American must take a turn to
violence. He emphasized that violence would be
"necessary" in "almost all" Latin American countries,
for "there is no other way." In an April interview
in Algiers, Guevara said: "It is very, very, very,
very, but very, hard to achieve liberation in Latin
America by employing peaceful means."

6. A number of reliable clandestine sources
have provided information on the many facets of
Cuba's subversive effort in Latin America. The most
serious form of subversion from Havana is its train-
ing of other Latin Americans in the practical arts
of guerrilla warfare. As many as 1,500 received
such training in 1962. It is estimated that several
hundred
Americans who
traveled to Cuba in 1963 also received such train-
ing. It has been learned that "scholarship students"
who go to Cuba ostensibly to study "agriculture" re-
ceive guerrilla warfare training. This instruction
encompasses the use and management of communications
equipment; the techniques of military intelligence,
including methods of establishing intelligence net-
works to obtain information from peasants; training
in a variety of weapons, including rifles and small
arms, which are readily available in most Latin
American countries; training in explosives, and
training in guerrilla tactics, including instruc-
tion on how to operate independently in the country-
side for extended periods of time. A separate train-
ing school reportedly trains Communist youth from
other Latin American countries. The school's one-
year course is divided between the study of Commu-
nist theory and practical training in political
agitation and subversive activities. Reports from
returning trainees confirm that the Cubans are de-
veloping extensive files on most Latin American
countries on subjects pertinent to the planning
and development of further subversive activity.
Detailed questionnaires submitted to Argentine,
trainees requested comments on possible air drop
zones, weather conditions, locations of military
bases, competence of local authorities, border and
frontier controls, and a long list of similar ques-
tions, obviously designed to build up a body of basic
knowledge on.

3

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
SECRET

-SECRET-
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

7. Latin Americans returning to their coun-
tries after having received training in Cuba often
take a round-about route to conceal the fact that
they have been in Cuba.
Bloc
ightsabowPrague. They then go through
Europe to some other Latin American country, from
which they enter their own. Cuba gives these
travelers documents which show no indication that
they had been in Cuba. Some guerrilla warfare
trainees are chosen for intelligence assignments
and are given special training in clandestine.com-
munications, which permits them to maintain a con-
tact with Cuba after they have returned home.

8. In addition, Latin Americans who receive
guerrilla warfare and other types of training in
Cuba are encouraged, on their return home, to pass
on what they have learned. Cuba-trained men are
known to have been conducting such training in
Costa Rica, Panama, British Guiana, Peru, and else-
where. Thus, the Castro-oriented revolutionary ef-
fort in Latin America has a potential for steady
growth even if there should be a lessening in the
actual training program in Cuba.

9. Numerous reports have alleged that Cuba
is supplying arms clandestinely to some Central
and South American-based extremist groups. Only
in the case of the arms cache discovered in Vene-
zuela on 1 November, however, has there been in-
controvertible proof of Cuban complicity in such
efforts. A good deal of the undeniably extensive
arms traffic which goes on in several areas of the
hemisphere is basically a continuation of long-
established patterns of arms smuggling between
nationals of the countries involved. Cuba does
possess over 100 fishing vessels and some cargo
planes which are well-suited to gun-running or
air drops, but we cannot confirm that they are used
for this purpose. In addition, Cuban leaders have
always stressed the importance of Latin American
revolutionaries procuring their own weapons from
local sources. Moreover, some financing from
Havana undoubtedly is used to buy arms.

10. Another important aspect of Havana's ef-
forts in Latin America is centered on supporting
and guiding hemisphere front organizations. Havana
has long sought to establish a new hemisphere-wide

4

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
-SECRET-

-SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

labor organization which could serve as a platform
for spreading pro-Castro propaganda among urban
labor movements. The embryonic Single Center of
Latin American Workers (CUTAL), which held its con-
stituent congress in Brazil in January 1964, ends
Havana's quest. This Brazilian congress was such
a total failure, however, that it is doubtful if
in the near future CUTAL will provide Havana with
the type of organization it envisaged. Cuba's sup-
port for the 9 March Second Latin American Youth
Congress (LAYC) also was well established. This
conference, too, ended in near-failure. Havana now
is attempting to organize another hemisphere "soli-
darity-with-Cuba" congress in Montreal, Canada in
July. This proposed congress--which, however, is
being officially discouraged by the Canadian govern-
ment--would be modeled on a similar effort staged
in Niteroi, Brazil in March 1963.

5

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
-SECRET-

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
ANNEX
Country-by-Country Rundown on Cuban Subversion

1. Argentina

Clandestine reporting for the past year con-
firms that the Cubans are cooperating with small
extremist Peronist groups in an attempt to estab-
lish a coordinated subversive effort in Argentina.
Extreme-left wing Peronists such as
AmericosBarnzos,AUDELO-Gafregor and Hectors
Villalon have been in close liaison with Cuban
agents in and elsewhere. Gallego
appears to be the principal support agent of a
group of Argentine terrorists and left-wing Peron-
ists believed to be directed and supported by the
Montevideo.

Last January, Gallego traveled to the provinces
of Jujuy and Salta, near the Bolivian border where
Argentine police discovered pro-Castro guerrilla
camps in March. Some guerrillas who were arrested
in that raid are known to have had guerrilla war-
fare training in Cuba. Among the propaganda items
found at these camps was a book written by Jorge
Ricardo Masetti, who was in Cuba in 1963 as a
director of Prensa Latina. He is thought to be
"Commandante Segundo" and is probably in charge
of the small guerrilla bands discovered in north-
ern Argentina in March and April. One of the FAL
rifles found in the hands of the guerrillas_pos-
sessed the same specifications as those found in
the 1 November Venezuelan arms cache. It is be-
lieved to be of Cuban origen.
More than
500 Argentines have recivedndoctrina
tion or subversive ning in Cuba Since 1950.
At least 222 Argents traveled to Cuba
64

2. Bolivia

Cuban subversive activity in Bolivia has been
centered on attempts to strengthen pro-Castro
sentiment among the followers of extremist Vice

-1-
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
-SECRET-

--SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

President Juan Lechin. Through its embassy in La
Paz, Cuba reportedly has given Lechin and his sup-
porters some arms and money to aid his bitter strug-
gle with President Paz Estenssoro for political
domination of the country.
September
extremist leaders, Cuban
Charge Roberto Lassale said the Cuban government
believed it necessary to organize well-armed combat
cadres from among various leftist-extremist groups.
He said Havana was prepared to supply the required
arms.
Reliable clandestine sommes was told
gave him two boxes of arms to be distrubuted among
the volatile Bolivian tin miners who at that time
were in revolt against his government.
1964 Mr. Madrob
the
Cuban government was willing to provide financial
and material support to Lechin for his campaign
to unseat President Paz in the 31 May presidential
elections. Lechin was scheduled to meet with Cuban
agents in early April to discuss his financial
needs and to determine what he was prepared to of-
fer in return for the proposed Cuban assistance.

In addition, the Comittee of Anti-Imperialist
Struggle, a pro-Castro Bolivian youth group which
aspires to establish a terrorist organization on
the model of the Venezuelan Armed Forces of Na-
tional Liberation, was organized last year with
the help of Mauro Garcia, then an officer of the
Cuban embassy. Members of this group were caught
in November 1963 attempting to plant bombs at the
home of the commander of the Bolivian Air Force
and near the residence of the US Ambassador.

The Cuban government continues to regard Bolivia
as a staging area from which to send trained sub-
versives into neighboring countires. It is pos-
sible that some Cuban support for guerrillas in
northern Argentina may have come across the border
from near-by Bolivia. Bolivia also has long been
a favorite transit area for terrorists returning
to Peru after having received guerrilla warfare
training in Cuba. In August 1963, a Bolivian Com-
munist Party (PCB) member in north Bolivia led

-2-
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
SECRET-

-SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

police to an arms cache which was to be used to sup-
port guerrilla operations in Peru. Bolivian authori-
ties have uncovered and dispersed at least three pro-
Castro guerrilla groups in this area in the past year.
Some 300 Bolivians have
1964.

3. Brazil

Before the overthrow of President Goulart, Cuba
was engaged in an active subversive effort in Brazil
providing funds, guerrilla training, and propaganda
support to Communist and pro-Communist groups. Operat-
ing primarily through its embassy in Rio de Janeiro,
Havana collaborated closely with Francisco Juliao's
Peasant Leagues in northeast Brazil and with Leonel
Brizola, Goulart's violently anti-American brother-
in-law. The former Cuban ambassador privately
described Brizola as having the best prospects for
starting a Castro-stule revolution in Brazil. The
ambassador appeared to be favoring him over Juliao
from late 1963 until the April overthrow.
ELERATO February a usually reliable source.
ported stirsingreedstor acceptoffers of Cuban
financial assistance to finance his expanding press
and radio activities and to "buy_some_arms" from_his
Popular Mobilization Front. The same sounce reported
first Subsidy on Havana
GUNONGTOS to buy arms In addition, a usually
reliable reports
Embassy in Mexico City reports that about 10 days
before the beginning of Goulart's overthrow, Ha-
vana sent money to Brazil in an effort to bolster
the Brizola forces, Four Cuban_couriers_reportedly
took the money to Brazil Mexico City

Cuba also maintained a substantial propaganda
operation in Brazil, primarily through the local
office of Prensa Latina. A Communist party member
in the state of Bahia revealed, for example, that
the local Communist newspaper was financed by Cuba,
The number of Brazilian-Cuban Cultural Institues

-3-
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
-SECRET

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

had increased to the point where they covered all
major cities; Rio alone had seven. Similar or-
ganizations existed at the national level, such
as the Society of Friends of Cuba and the National
Committee Against Intervention in Cuba. Cuba also
broadcast daily to Brazil in Portuguese.

Brazil under Goulart also afforded Cuba an
excellent base for promoting hemisphere-wide, pro-
Cuban front groups. The constituent congress of
the Single Center of Latin American Workers (CUTAL) --
which is planned to replace the moribund Confedera-
tion of Latin American Workers (CTAL)--was held in
Brazilia in late January. The Brazilian delega-
tion to the Cuban-supported Second Latin American
Youth Congress (LAYC), held in Santiago, Chile on
9 March, was headed by President Goulart's nephew,
who brought a letter from the President warmly sup-
porting the conference. Brazil was also used as
a transit area for some Latin American subversives
returning to their countries after having received
training in Cuba.

In late April, the dissident Communist Party
of Brazil (CPB), which follows a pro-Chinese line,
was reported to have directed two Cuban-trained
leaders to begin paramilitary operations in Sao
Paulo and Goias. CPB members have been encouraged
by their Cuban comrades--many have been trained in
Cuba--but Havana is not known to have given them
direct support.
57 Brazilians
veled to Cuba in
4. British Guiana

The government of Premier Cheddi Jagan is openly
pro-Castro. Thus, Cuban activities in British Guiana,
In contrast to subversive efforts elsewhere in the
hemisphere, are designed to support rather than to
bring down the existing regime.

Clinton Adlum, the Cuban trade representative
in Georgetown, is probably giving both political and
economic advice to Jagan's People's Progressive Party
(PPP)Cuban ships call frequently at British Guiana
ports to deliver food and fuels and to pick up rice.

-4-
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
-SECRET-

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Numerous unconfirmed reports have stated that these
ships also transport arms to British Guiana which
allegedly are then shipped elsewhere in Latin America.

The vehicle for British Guianese trade with Com-
munist countries, as well as for Cuban funding of
Jagan's regime and the PPP, is the Guyana Import Ex-
port (GIMPEX). Havana ordered payment $ 300,000
to the manager of GIMPEX in September, ostensibly
for payment of goods, according to a usually reliable
source. It is unclear, however, whether the money
was ever actually paid. GIMPEX has loaned such funds
in the past both to the government and to the PPP
publishing house. Another source reports that the
publishing house passes the funds to Janet Jagan
for PPP salaries and expenses.

Georgetown officials believe Cuban-
trained terrorists are behind much of the sporadic
violence which has occurred during the months-long
strike by the pro-Jagan sugar workers union; it is
attempting to gain an official endorsement by the
Guianese sugar industry. A senior police official
has told the US Consul General that six or eight
Cuban-trained youths provide the technical support
for this group's growing terrorist efforts in George-
town. Another source reports some Guianese were
receiving guerrilla training in the interior of
the country in November 1963, presumably for the
newly-formed Guyana Liberation Army
Guyanese
aveled to cuba in
have
traveled to Cuba in 1963
5. Chile

The Cuban effort in Chile concentrates on sup-
port for the presidential campaign of Salvadore
Allende. Allende is the candidate of the Communist-
dominated Popular Revolutionary Action Front (FRAP),
and he has a chance of being elected in the September
presidential elections. Allende has visited Cuba
on several occasions; his campaign manager was in
Havana in January. While there, he was promised
financial support for Allende's campaign. A usually
reliable source reports that Che Guevara recently
said: "Watch Chile, it will be the next Latin Ameri-
can country to enter our camp."

-5-
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
-SECRET

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

A clandestine source much to
Chilean student
Cuba reported in February that
returning student said some 40 Chileans
would soon be leaving Cuba to return to Chile. The
Source said these Chileans had received political
training in Cuba and were returning with funds from
the Cuban government for Allende's presidential
campaign. Chilean police are reported to have identi-
fied 400 Chileans who have visited Cuba over the
past three years as "subversives," but we have no
evidence of any organized guerrilla training of
Chilean groups in Cuba.
350 chileans
Traveled sto Cubanat
uba on19163
64 months.

6. Colombia

Cuba has been providing funds to subversives
in Colombia since 1960. The pro-Castro, Worker-
Student-Peasant Movement (MOEC), the United Front
for Revolutionary Action (FUAR)--whose members are
building up the newly activated National Liberation
Front (FLN), and the recently organized National
Liberation Movement have been the principal recip-
ients of Cuban funds. A fairly reliable source
ASTRA
Colombia to evaluate the FLN and its prospects
and to pass funds for further activity.
Site
Cuba has established some contact with bandit
gangs infesting the Colombian countryside. Army
troops who are fighting the bandits have found
Cuban propaganda in the possession of these bandits.
Some bandit leaders may have had guerrilla training
in Cuba, but Havana does not appear to have had
substantial success so far in directing bandit
activity for political ends.
7.

Costa Rica

The Communist Popular Vanguard Party (PVP)
continues to send members for subversive training
in Cuba. Some of these militant returnees have

-6-
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
-SECRET

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

begun training small groups of party members, but
they appear to have no immediate plans for anti-
government action. Much of the_pro-Castro acti
vity in Costa Rica appears to have been directed
against neighboring Nicaragua. Cuba-trained
revolutionaries based in Costa Rica have on oc-
casion crossed into Nicaragua. The police in-
spector at a town in the Pacific banana zone re-
ported in early February that two unidentified
Cubans who traveled from Panama to Costa Rica at-
tempted to stir up Costa Rican banana workers in
support of Panamanian charges against the US.

The Costa Rican Society for Friendship with
Peoples, a small Communist-front group designed"
to propagandize on behalf of the Cuban revolution
and pro-Castro "revolutionary movements" in other
Latin American countries, is an important Havana
asset in San Jose.
Cuba,

8. Dominican Republic

The country's two militant pro-Communist or-
ganizations, the 14th of June Political Group (APCJ)
and the Dominican Popular Movement (MPD), are faith-
ful supporters of Castro. Havana Radio quickly
voiced support for last December's abortive APCJ
guerrilla campaign, but we have no firm evidence
of Cuban material support for this effort. The
quick response from Radio Havana suggests, how-
ever, the existence of a communications link with
one or more pro-Castro organizations in the country.
Quick response by Havana to unrest in the Dominican
Republic also was reflected during the transit
workers strike in early May.

One Dominican who has received guerrilla train-
ing in Cuba organized the 14th of June Revolutionary
Movement (MR 14J) earlier this year out of the old
APCJ and MPD. The immediate aim of this new or-
ganization is to promote urban terrorism. A ter-
rorist captured by police in mid-March is said to
have told police that this group is receiving arms
and guidance from Castro.

-7-
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
-SECRET

9. Ecuador

-SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Since the 11 July 1963 military coup, the
Ecuadorean government's careful monitoring of
anti-government activities has hampered Cuban ef-
forts there. When the junta began to exile Com-
munists and pro-Castro extremists last fall,
several took up residence in Havana.
Osilentosiding in Bolivia told a clandestine source
in late March that exiles in Cuba were receiving
guerrilla warfare training before returning to
Ecuador to initiate anti-government activities.
Rafael Echeverria, leader of the hard-line faction
of the Ecuadorean Communist Party (PCE), is re-
portedly planning a trip to Havana in late May
to confer with Castro. Echeverria expects to have
laid the groundwork for guerrilla operations by
then so that he can "prove his good faith" to the
Cubans; he expects to be offered financial aid.

Other clandestine sources report Cuban aid
has been offered to supporters of former presi-
dent Velasco Ibarra and that aid is being of-
fered to followers of former president Arosemena.
ravel
tuba throughs Apri
64

10. El Salvador

There has been little evidence of direct Cuban-
supported subversion in El Salvador during the
past 10 months. The Castro government probably
helps members of the Salvadoran Communist Party
(PCES) and its front groups to get to Cuba for
guidance and training. Havana radio, heard
clearly in El Salvador, provides a propaganda
line which can be echoed in locally published
Communist publications.

Havana-has at least one well-trained Salvadoran
intelligence agent, who provides intelligence on
selected targets. He was trained in Cuba for a
year and a half, not only in guerrilla warfare
but in clandestine communications. Like many
other Cuban agents, he is not actually working
in Salvador but in a neighboring country, from
which he deals with Salvadoran operations across
the border on direct instructions from a Cuban
intelligence officer

-8-
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
SECRET

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
traveled to Cuba
Salvadorans
throug April 1964.
ravelesto Cuba through

11. Guatemala

Cuba has been giving assistance and guidance
to Guatemalan guerrilla and terrorist groups for
over two years. While we have no firm evidence of
substantial Cuban assistance in 1963, two clandes-
tine sources reported hat extremist
guerrilla leader von Sosa and some of his followers:
traveled tto.Cuba during
ar and returned
Warren Barge to finance their activit
es in addition, another source reports one of
the persons involved in October by the premature ex
posion on a homemade bomb, was acknowledged by the
Guarenanian_commisit Party as a Cuban-trained ex-
partin explosives. Mexican Marxist journalist
Victor Rico Galan, often used by Castro as an agent
in Central America, saw Yon Sosa in October and is
said to have urged him to work more closely with
the Guatemalan Communists.

Strong anti-Subversive measures by the Peralta
Government have curtailed, but have by no means
eliminated, the insurgency threat in Guatemala.
The assassination on 11 April of a colonel with
special antiguerrilla duties indicates the guer-
rillas are still at large in the mountainous areas
of the country. They maintain reliable communica-
tions and contacts and have the capability to stage
damaging raids on carefully chosen targets.

At least 64 Guatemalans are known to have
traveled to Cuba in 1963. On the basis of clandes-
tine reporting, it is estimated that another 50
traveled secretly and that these received training
in guerrilla tactics or political indoctrination.
12. Haiti

Known Cuban activity in Haiti is limited to
two daily propaganda broadcasts by Havana Radio.

-9-
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
-SECRET-

-SECRET-
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

A French-language transmission is aimed at the
educated class and a broadcast in Creole is beamed
to the masses. The speaker has been identified
as Rene Depestre, a top-ranking Haitian Communist
exile in Cuba. The content of Depestre's broad-
casts is consistently pro-Cuban and anti-Duvalier.
Some Haitians may have received guerrilla train-
ing in Cuba, but we have no firm evidence that any
such trainees have returned to Haiti, The long-
time presence of many hundreds of Haitian nationals
in eastern Cuba provides Castro with material for
sizable infiltrations into Haiti if he should so
desire.
Twenty-threes Hartrans traveled to Cuba-in

13. Honduras

Much of the pro-Castro activity in Honduras
appears to be directed toward support of similar
activities in neighboring Nicaragua and Guatemala.
The country's rugged terrain, the absence of an
effective internal security force, and the presence
of long-established routes for smuggling into
neighboring countries make Honduras well suited
for such a role.

Two recent clandestine sources report the
Cuban government is dissatisfied with efforts of
the Honduran Communist Party to establish an ef-
fective guerrilla movement. Cuban leaders are
said to favor the establishment of a new organiza-
tion with no direct ties to orthodox Communist
groups. The Cubans are said to have selected
Mario Sosa to organize the new movement, and to
begin making contacts with "liberal" leaders to
investigate their readiness for armed action
against Honduras' military government.
50 Honmansstraveled to cuva

-10-
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
-SECRET-

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
14. Mexico

The Castro regime has been careful in the past
to avoid antagonizing the Mexican government, in
view of the importance to Cuba of maintaining its
embassy and its civil air connections through Mexico.
The Cubans continue to use their embassy in Mexico
City as well as individual Mexican nationals and
exiled Central American residents there to support
subversive activities elsewhere in Central America.
The activities of Mexican journalist Victor Rico
Galan are a case in point.

Havana may find it difficult, however, to
avoid exploiting the endemic peasant_unrest which
is increasing in northern Mexico. A clandestine
source reported from the Cubanrembassy
Claustre Cobam charge
giving Shen Sharb SoS of money to the Communist led
Sidependente
Central (CCI)--which has been
behind much of the peasant unrest. The US consul
general at Tampico reported last May that the Cuban
consul there was openly preaching revolution and
distributing inflammatory propaganda and that he
had stepped up the tempo of his activities consider-
ably in recent months.
least 512 Mexicans traveled to Cuba in 1963;
traveled to Cuba from January through April of
This year.

15. Nicaragua

Cuban subversive efforts aimed at Nicaragua
have been channeled principally through the National
Liberation Front (FLN), a Communist-dominated revo-
lutionary organization. Most of this group's guer-
rilla leaders were trained in Cuba in 1961-62, along
with members of various other Nicaraguan revolu-
tionary movements. Cuban aid to the FLN takes the
form of financial support, training, and guidance,
but details are lacking regarding its current size
or effectiveness. In August 1963, the FLN launched
an unsuccessful guerrilla foray into northern
Nicaragua from Honduras which cost the small organ-
ization some of its key personnel. Since then,
the FLN has been the object of harassment by both
Nicaraguan and Honduran security forces. It has
shown no capability to make another move soon.

-11-
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
SECRET-

tos Cuba 11-1963.

16. Panama

-SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
guans are knownstos have traveled

Pro-Castro and Communist elements moved quickly
to exploit the January outbreaks of violence in
Panama. For some four months preceding the 9-11
January incidents, Havana had been increasing its
pressure on its contacts in Panama to cooperate in
starting revolutionary action. Revolutionary
leaders of the Castro-supported Vanguard of the
National Revolution (VAN) were urged as early as
the threatened banana workers' strike in October
1963 to cooperate in initiating an anti-government
campaign. Planning quickened after the early
November visit of Victor Rico Galan and possibly
other Castro agents. Some of the approximately
100 Panamanians believed to have received training
in Cuba were planning to give guerrilla warfare
courses in December and again in May.

Clandestine reporting also discloses Cuban
efforts to influence the outcome of the 10 May
1963 national elections. Havana is reliably re-
ported to have provided some funds for campaign
assistance to selected deputorial candidates of
the Radical Action Party (PAR).
Seven Panamaniansextremists returned to Panama
In late March after thaving spent varying periods
of time training in Cuba. Four of these were VAN
members. Another group of recently-returned trainees
was reliable, reported in early May to be seeking
to establish a new revolutionary group in Panama
and to launch revolutionary activities in the near
future.
Sixty-one Panamanians traveled to Cuba-in 1963.

17. Paraguay

Cuban subversive efforts directed against
Paraguay continue to be confined to supporting and
training Paraguayan exiles based for the most part
dy Montevideo, Uruguay. The Paraguayan Communist
Party (PCP) and its paramilitary front group, the
United Front for National Liberation (FULNA) are
the most prominent recipients of Cuban aid and

-12-
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
-SECRET-

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
attention, which is given through-the-Cuban embassy
Ane Montevideo. Some FULNA members have received
guerrilla training in Cuba.

A once-weekly pro-Castro broadcast in the
Guarani language has been heard in Paraguay since
mid-November 1963. The PCP is said to be keeping
two Paraguayans in Cuba permanently to enable the
program to continue to be broadcast in Guarani.
Only six Paraguayans traveled to Cuba in**1963.
However, probably more exiles in Uruguay traveled
to Havana.

18. Peru

The primary recipient of Cuban assistance for
armed revolution against the Belaunde government is
the Movement of the Revolutionary Left (MIR), a
militant pro-Castro organization composed of some
1,000 members and 3,500 sympathizers. Between 4.50
and 500 MIR members have received guerrilla train-
Ing abroad, most of of them in Cuba. Police raids in
January and May probably upset the MIR's timetable
for initiating anti-government action, but the move-
ment is well-financed, well-armed, and well-organized.
It has the potential for carrying out a subversive
campaign of considerable disruptiveness. Luis de
la Puente, the leader of MIR, has visited Cuba on
several occasions, and is on good terms with Castro.

Cuba has assisted other pro-Castro groups of
lesser importance, but such assistance has been
limited to guerrilla training. One such group, the
Army of National Liberation (ELN), organized by
Peruvian extremist students in Havana, has isolated
bands of guerrillas operating in remote areas of
the country. The National Liberation Front (FLN)
is openly pro-Castro, and has sent members to Cuba
for subversive training. Principal FLN leader
Salomon Bolo visited Cuba last September.

Castro-inspired extremists have exploited re-
curring peasant unrest in Central Peru for the past
several months and they have been behind much of
the illegal peasant land incursions which have oc-
curred there.

-13-
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
SECRET

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
Hidrty three Peruvians are known to have
Boaveled to Cuba in 1963, 16 traveled to Cuba
through April of this year.

19. Uruguay

We have no evidence of Cuban support for revo-
lutionary activity directed at subverting the
Uruguayan government. Uruguay's importance to
Havana lies in its value as a place where Cubans
and Cuban agents are relatively free to carry on
subversive contacts with dissidents from neighbor-
ing countries, particularly Argentines, Paraguayans,
and Brazilians. The Cuban embassy in Montevideo
has been particularly useful as a transit point for
air travel to Cuba of of travelers wishing to conceal
their ultimate destination. Uruguay also has been
useful to Cuba as a distribution point for Cuban
propaganda for neighboring countries. Cuban propa-
ganda is widely disseminated in Uruguay as part of
a more subtle policy of building up Castroism among
Uruguayan leftists and intellectuals.
