104-10211-10326 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

TO: Chief of Station, Mexico City
FROM: Chief, WE Division
SUBJECT: LIENVOY-8
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

PROCESSING TION
MARKED FOR INDEXING

DO NOING REAS
OLY QUALIFIED DESA
CAR DE MOSING

MICROFILE

1. As a result of the recent review done of the LIFEAT
and LIENVOY Project, it came to Headquarters attention that
LIENVOY-8, who was believed to have been terminated, was still
covered by the LIEKVOY Project.

2. According to HMA-14876, LIENVOY-8 was the cause of
a security problem for LIENVOY in February 1960 when he requested
release from LIENVOY and a transfer to his parent organization, the
General Staff of the Presidency. LIENVOY-8 was described as a
"scur" nationalist who disapproved of ODTOKE's sharing of the
LIENVOY take.

3. Headquarters now notes that LIENVOY-8's clearance has
never been cancelled and there is no Agent Service Record or
termination report in his file. LIENVOY-8 was included in the
LIENVOY Project renewal request for the 1961/62 project year, but
not for the 1962/63 year. The field project renewal request for
the 1963/64 year included him again.

4. It is requested that the Station inform Headquarters of
the present status of LIENVOY-8 (201-118406). If he has been
terminated, please forward an Agent Service Record. If he is
still being used, please provide a current analysis of his relia-
bility and comments on any security probelas present in light of
his actions and reputation in 1960.

END OF DISPATCH

Distribution:
081 - COS, Mexico City

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HLHB-12027
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

31 Octos
DATE
23 October 1963
HQS FILE NUMBER
201-118406

ORIGINATING
