104-10172-10278 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

DISPATCH

Chief, WE
Chief, SR

FROM
Chief of Station, Helsinki 14-1

SUBJECT
REDCOAT/LCIMPROVE/AELADLE Tabe Maria Ingeborg SLIOOR (201-765030)

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
19-1 H3059, 2 June 65
ΑΣΥ: OPHA-7261, 4 June 65

ACTION: FYI

1. Subject was interviewed for an immigrant visa on 7 July 65.
Unfortunately Clastonbury could not be present because of other business.
The interviewing officer was briefed prior to the meeting and faced the
applicant with a series of questions regarding her association with
Soviets and any approaches that may have been made to her in light of her
unusual life. In response to these questions, we are told that SLIOOR
gave thoughtful consideration to each question and probably truthfully
replied that although she has met several Soviet diplomats, no approaches
for cooperation were made to her. She realized the full implication of
the questions and made no attempts to be evasive. Subject was given
her visa immediately after the interview.

2. Attachment 1 is a translation of the VALIK traces on subject.
As noted in the traces SLIOOR was an acquaintance of Griferiv GOB
(201-150156) and Georgiy STERING: born 29 June 1913 in Moscow (aka
Georgi STEINING OPHA-1807, 30 July 56 and OPHW1456, 9 October 56).
These names were not used in the interview.

3. Attachment 2 is a thermofax copy of SLIOOR's visa; Attachment 3;
birth record; Attachment 4, marriage certificate.

4. From subject's visa application her address in the U.S. is listed
as Fort Hood, Texas.

Attachments:
as stated

Distribution:
3- WE w/atts
2-SR w/atts
2-Helav/atts

WALTER R. CLASTOKSUSY

201-150156
22
ГОРНА-7320

14 July 65

1-768030

BIBA
