104-10183-10331 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

-θέν το PILE 29.
FILOCT. TO BRANCH
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIES
ACTION
ADVANCE COPY
RID COPY
SLOTTED
ALINI UG/1T
REPRODUCTION PROMISITE
FL
TIME
Background Use Only
RETURN TO CIA
Do Not Reproduce
:
16-10
SECRET2315422 CITE (SANTO DOMINGO 2554
DIRECTOR INFE JMWAVE, CARACAS 16-17
16-10
8 6773441
IJAVE (IN 73380)*
REF: SANTO DOMINGO 2561 (NOT SENT JAVED
KAPOK DYVOUR PBRUMEN
DESENSITIZED
1. OTHER TOPICS MENTIONED IN DISCUSSIONS BETWEEN CUBANS
AND MAIJA REPS, AND NOT INCLUDED IN REFERENCE DUE OPERATIONAL
CONTEXT, VERE:
06
A PICHI MELLA CASE CUBANS TOLD DOMINICANS TO REVIEW
-06-
ALL THE "COMPANEROS WHO WERE IN CUZA VITH PICHI AND TO BE
06
CAREFILL WITH AND "VIGILAR" TELLA THEY ADD THAT
06.
MELLA MUST MOVE AND AVOID MEETING WITH THE "TIPO ANYMORE.
HEXT SENTENCE SAYS, "IMPORTANTE: AJUSTICIAMIENTO DE VICTOR".
VICTOR ALSO REFERRED TO AS AGENT OF CIA AND TRAITOR.
DOMINICANS ALSO DISCUSS "GRUPO FRANCES WITH CUSANS
CUBANS SAY THAT THEY BELIEVE GROUP IS COLLABORATING WITH FRENCH
AND YANKEES (CIA) BECAUSE OF THE EASE WITH WHICH THEY GET
THINE DONE, CUBANS ADD THAT THESE PEOPLE (GRUPC FRANCES GOI
IN TOUCH WITH MAIJA THROUGH LUIS GENAD AND FIDELIO DESPRADEL
CUBANS SAY THEY ARE INVESTICATING CONTACT THAT GENAD
C
(NOT FURTHER IDENTIFIED) MADE A FEW MONTHS AGO IN NEW YORK
0

14-00000
*
2
7
$
PAGE 2 SANGO DOMINGO 2564 SECRET
WITH MEMBERS MAJ (VIDOW.MINAYA).
SECAST
CUBANS ARE VERY WORRIED
ABOUT PROBLEM OF GENAO AND WHO TO SUBSTITUTE FOR HIM IN RA.
NO INDICATION THAT THIS GENAG IDENTIFIABLE WITH LUIS
ESPAILLAT.
2. FOR DIRECTOR SUGGEST YOU MAY WISH RELAY REFERENCE TO
JIWAVE
3. FOR JEWAVE REFERENCE VAS LISTING AND DESCRIPTION
DOCUMENTS CONFISCATED FROM DOMINICAN COMMUNIST COURIER FERNANDO 24
DE LA ROSA BY VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS
SECRET
ат
* Joey OF ESITAL TIMES BAD BREDURIES OF INF
NANABLE TO S FROM FEEDS DELA PRA
AND FROM CONFISSTES APPELS.
06
одо
