14-00000
104-10098-10404 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

DIRECTOR.
NICO CITY
CAC 3
ON, ADDP, C/0004, CINT, C/FE 6, C/SAD, CAM, BASS

SIJRET 2101037 7492
INTO HAVE SOME CITE MOVE 7400
211CBIN05224

:. 13 70123
2. 078 69575.02
02
WALE AMALTINO RECEIPT R
[7
GET ALONG LINES

1. FOLL REYED TO REF B:
REPORT A:
1. DAY BEFORE HURRICANE CYNTHIA HIT CUSA, DETWEEN 900 AND
500 SOVIET TECKS LEFT BY SHIP FROM SANTIACÓ DE CURA. ON 10 NOV
APPROK 200 SOVS VERE SZEN WALKING STREETS MADARA WITH SUITCASES
05
PRIOR DEBARCATION. (SOURCE REGISTO REMIGIO NE E DOI: 9 DEC).
02
08
ALL SOUS APPEAR TO BE TECHS, ALTINO YOUNG, BOST OBSERVED
USSIANET HAD NO MILITARY BEARING, IN SLOPPY PHYSICAL SHAPE,
HIS ASSUMPTION THEY CIVILIANS. FRIEND ERIC BORSIONEM

LIVES ON ROAD TO PINAR DEL RIC, TOLD PA DA SIX MONTHS
THE SOUS, DID NOT PERME ARYOPET TO THEIR CAMP NEAR EL
PUT FOR THE LAST ST THREE RES SONTHE DUPAN OFFICIALS ENTER IN LARD
RER OF SOUS HAD BEEN REDUCED BY THO
IN SOROA CLOSED DOUN ABOUT SIX NONTES
URCE NENITA ROCA,
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

14-00000
:
ORIGINAL CONTIGOUT OF
LIVING WITH FAMILIES. (SOURCE: ANG
APPARENTLY CUBAN HADE.
:
YMBOLIC OF PLAYBOYS. IN A SAFE
IS OF VARIOUS
RAS, OF COURET, SINCE
CHINESE.
02
ALLITE TYPES.
02
:
☑H SAM ON 13 DEC του το
THREE I
CURED AS SOVIET TYPE ON
FROM KATANZAS TO VERASERO, 24 DE THEY HAD 5. LARO
:
AND OF SMALLER WHEEL RAISED OFF GROUND. DOUBLE TURRETS.
LARGE WAKION O
.:
CEN GOING SAME DIRECTION.
SAMS LARGE TRUCKS DRIVES FY SOVE AND CARRYING FIVE
7 AREA TOWARDS THE INTERIOR.
ALL SAY
ROA 250 DURING
2005 82-88 NI SAOSTI ISI
4. SEE TWO, ABOVE.
5. FLOW OF SOVS IS CONSISTENT WITH NEEDS CASTRO GOVT, MANY
HARY MORE WILL COME AS NEED ARISES. TYPICAL ATTITUDE OF MAN
PREET IS "SOVS HERE TO STAY".
6. TO INFO SOUS IN CUBAN KILITIA UNIFORMS.

1561494 2ICA RIVO

14-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET PAGE 3
LIFE: NO GOC OFFICIAL OPPOSES FOR FEAR OF OWN LIFE. IN ANY EVENT
OPPOSITION WOULD HAVE NO VALUE OR HEATING. COMMON GUOTE: "FIDEL
MACE Y FIDEL DESHACE".
3. SEE ONE, ABOVE.
4. NOT KNOWN, BUT CUBAN POSITION IN DISPUTE VERY INDEPENDANT,
UNARFECTED.
PART C
1. FOST OF THE FILITIA PERSONNEL HAVE BEEN CONVERTED TO
ARMY REGULARS PAST SIX HONTHS.
2. UNKNOWN
02
3. D IMPRESSION IS THAT CURAN ARMY NOW VELL TRAINED AND
CRARIZED.
4. ON TEN DEC. FAR SOROA, ALL CARS HALTED ON ROAD WHILE
CONTINENT CUBAN TROOPS SURROUNDED A CANE FIELD AND SPRAYED IT
VITN GUNFIRE, SEARCHED IT, EUT FOUND NO ONE. TROOPS VELL FED AND
SUPPLIED. (SOURCE: FRUITA ROCA 9 DEC). SORCA AFFROX 80 KMS
FOCH PARINA TOWARDS PINAR DEL RIO.
SECRET
:
•
02
CICES RETURI CUBA AS COCORVER SINGLETCH.
