14-00000
104-10529-10329

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

UNIT FS/CIOP
5601

EXT
INDEX

NO INDEX
DATE: 12 OCTOBER 1963; FILE IN OS FILE NO.201-736701

TO MEXICO CETY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONE
C/FE6

ROUTING
1
2
3

ROUTINE

INFO: ADOP CICT, C/FI, C/WH-5, D/OS 2, RF, IVR

DOEDIATEME
KAPOK LCHARVEST

INFO
CITE DIR 75338

REF MEXI 6488 (IH 38148)

1. LIARO SZU CHENS 2733 1835 2052, 201-736731 301, T
LANGUAG
BACKGROUND:

1923 BA TSINGHUA UNIV

Any

28 MAJA UNIV PEKING

28-31 PRO

LEASING OFFICER

32-33 OF RATIONAL

41 ACADEBITA SILICA

いく OF NATIONAL

ORARY PED YALE

STIXO PROY YALE

61 HRAD RING AND ARCHITEC

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

14-00000

ORIG FB/CXOB

UNIT 5661

EXT
DATE: 12 October 1963 INDEX

NO INDEX
FILE IN C.S FILE NO.

TO MEXICO CERI

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO

2. RE: SRI

INFO 56 AZTEC, INTERNED OTHER AND INTERROGATED

APR 59 DEPUTY EXTERIOR NATIONAL FORMER'S CONGRESS MEXICO

OCT 62 VICE CHAIRMAN CHINA ARCHITECTURAL SOCIETY

SEP 63 DEPUTY LEADER OF CRR DELEGATION TO REVISING INTER-

NATIONAL CONGRESS OF ARCHITECTURE, HAVANA.

ROUTING
1
2
3

DSFERRED
ROUTINE

CIFE DIR 7533

NATIONA CRIFICISM FOLLOWING INTERVIEWS FROM LIANG'S RETURN TO THE

HPC, JULY 13 1957 EAFTER WHY I LOVE

AND UTING HES PAST ANXIETY AND PERPLEX
TIME EB HAD USED OUT-DAHED ARCHITECTURAL THEORIES TO TRACH TE
TESTEUCTORS AND STUDENTS OF THE TSINGHUA UNIVERSITY BECAUSE

RELEASING OFFICE COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET
CROUP
From Butomatic
downgrading and

(CONTINUED)
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
ソー
Cepy

14-00000
ORIG: BECKY FRANK
UNITIF/CIOP
LCT
τους
DATE 12. OCTOBER 1962

TO MEXICO CLY

FROM DIRECTOR.

CON

INFO
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

INDEX
NO INDEX

FILE IN CS FILE NO.

ROUTING
1 4
2 5
3 6

DEFERRED
ROUTINE

PAGE THERE

TO DMEDIATE MEXI INFO CITE DIR

BY THE STATEMENT THAT EVERETNING OF THE PARTY HAS COOD. ER SAID THAT AFTER HE
HAD WRITTEN ORTS, AND FEED LECTURES OF ITS AFFIQUATED
SUAL TH FOR ERFUTATION. WAS A KATIONS TARGET

HAS DOWNHBAREED I HAVE NO QUARREL WITH THE PANY.
WAS SURE I WAS BETEG SUBJECTED TO CRIFICIEM BECAUSE MY ARCHLECTUAL THEORIES
DID FOT
CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM MY PATE WAS
THAT OF A CHILD BEPARTY A3 MUCH AS I HAD THU

WITH
AFTER CAL PARTY PRODIGAL
KTEV

THAT EVEN A FEW AWAY FROM

(CONTINUED)
RELEASING OFFICE COORDINATING OFFICERS

Eschuled Prote putometic
Congreding and
PotassiBeation
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy Na

14-00000
ORIG ROCKY FRAMK
UNETTE/CIOP
DATE: 12 OCTOBER 1963
5661:

INDEX
NO INDEX

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET
FILE IN CS FILE NO.
TO

FRO14 DIPECIOR

CONT
INFO

TO DOIRDLAER MEX
OP
HE WOULD
CANDIDA
MOULD

2
BOUTING
5
6

DEFERRED
ROUTINE

PAGES FOUR
INFO
CITE DIR 75338

82
ERIDGE TO LIAN
OFFICER
FURTHER
HEAVY FARGONAL COLSIT
TESTAZLISH CONTACT LIANG AND
LYAND AP UNIV YALE O
THERE IS CHANCE
DASS MANG CO
FOSSIBLE
TRATED CASE
MAY BE
PART.
REMAXE

THO DAYS DUE
PASS PRIESKIP TO
LIANS EFACTION
SO STATION SHOULD BE PREPARED SAFERGUER UNTIL FIRYTEER SEKPS CAN BE TAKEN.
OTPLATE 1 ARRIVING MEKI 12 OCTOBER 2165 FOURS VIA BASTER
AIR LINES FLITE 305 HAVE ERIKPED HIM WILL BE MET BY SAREERD SEPLATE 1

RELEASING OFFICE COORDINATING OFFICERS
factured from σκοtomatic
somegroting one

(CONTINUED)
AUTHENTICATIO
OFFICEO

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ESUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Ceo, No

14-00000
XI PRATA
2/CIOP
5661
12 OCTOBER 1963

DMEDIATE MEXI
INDEX
INFO
CLASSIFICO MESSAGE
126

SOUTING
SBORLT

PAGE FT.E
CITL GIR

DEFERRED
BOUT!
WILL MRAR RED WHITE BLUE TIE IF CONTACT MISSED STPLATE 1 TO PROCEED
CITY AND CONTACT MARINE GUARD AT EMBASSY ASKTEO FOR SAESEED. AUTHORIZE
STATION ADVANCE OPERATIONAL FUNDS AND PER DIEM AS NECESSARY TO STPLATE
SINCE ED OPPORTUNITY DO BO HERE. CHARGE LCHARVEST COA

ESSAGE
RAFORD HERBERT
DC/WILD

FI Staff Lloyd George (by phone)
DC/PED/03 Steve Kubn (by phone
Staff by phone
DEFE(C)

C/WE/3 J. Written (by phone)
ECRET

THAN THE ISSUING PROHIBITED.
CPE
