104-10291-00003

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ENSE SELECT CONITTEL ON ASSASSEAJONS STAFE EMBERS

SECRET

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLINE: WIROGUE

INCLUSIVE DATES: 24 July 59- 27 July 1961
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: OP
ROOM: 5513
DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE
RECEIVED
DATE
RETURNED
REVIERED BY
(PRINT NAME)
SIGNATURE OF
REVIEWING OFFICIAL

NO DOUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FREE THIS FILE

MAYCRINK, Ernest G.

14-00000

RIOM
DISPATCH

Diet, Finance Division

Cheat of Atlas, Laugalailla
Katw of Aceratebility-Arcs 3. Zayerin

ACTION DED
35-ONEY ONE
MARKED FOR INDEUNG
NO INDEUONG FOLD
PADDING CAN BE AUDIGED
BY QUALUIRED NO DESK ONLY.

LROP-159
BLR-0071

1. On 7 July 1961 VIROSE was advanced the man of u. 3.100.00
Living ex
Dressaville الدم مالكing exard t
Motion to PEP西西,(第 100033ed VIROGUI re
3(. Misia ملط aly ontosanding advance with Lesمثلا فلمو
ation Receipt attached hereto

-49325 Bathorised distin to Athhold money reestred
of personal car ago
fare Me doparture VIROGUE Scoomto 8 accurated for 11,900 BCP over hal
R2,500 BCD from the sale of blo
catombilo plus 11,500 BOP converted at 20/11.00 (BOP-1599
ムング) gave VIROQUE a arcade of 1,001.00. In Josiery 1961
Comes was ordered to Payoville by the station and res authori sod
60.30 per mile for use of his personal car, morfwe, 12.5 ad 100
30.12 qale $11.97 1learlag UIROOT a credit of U. S.
(300 attachant).
18:00

3. VIEOGUE was paid hie Jesse salary of $500 on 26 Juno and
also via boing for Jul (9259.00), (Station was notifiod e
1 July, DIELY ROB VIRSQUE ES FOE to FEPHTHΣ). Πευνας,
July Fastal tos beed in o fiml times of the lease res
nasal daages claire a by local nadlevde and in itea of
Credentica notice. Rossipt Perverted is Vouchers 1153.
CEYD

4. Acosatability in the son of 1. 8. $100.00 18 borowit
treeferred to Headquarters plus a credis of $1,112.85. AS VINOсиз
sweepsaifically told hold have to sms for the above $100.00
for Uring/traveling expesses Statien 414 sot mbtrast that ascant
tra lo eredis.
:
18 Jaly 1961
Angela B. Derricote

Receipt for $10,
3.
Thyevilla certification by Juthisen, h/v.
Coquilhatville estimato, a
Attachesato: 1.
Disaribaslens
2.
4. Breakdown of advances and encountings, h/v
Nga - 4, v/a a/a
:
L
3

14-00000
3
:
Sorter
inte
106
fully notifi 20 id rast will to terminat
by Gorzatan Septarter bl. You are revinded of tra edalents
paragrapt alquer off of and street, which reeds as Pallover
lion of
ぐ
11. St. All information related to this agreement
Covered rock instructions, tris instrument, or othervise, in
shall not a divulgal to any person, organisation
over's say form or manner. rastasunarised by the
rcorsigned Contracting Officer axetuting the agreement. It is
Agreed to as revelati caterer of the above information
will conegute and be az irardiate and final breach of this
vill result in forfeiture by you of any and all
benefis atlok way then have scared to you by reason of this
3
ماجيوم fact are farein authorized a comm
7
ت
2,100 horam
In foll maldecation for anil nayees and affa
seite receipts you has and fover disebars
set vermint end end and apero deserter or Latrostal
Matative feas
terdam Dor A for the bitat Stetes
ور
1781 les 11 asbrowledgment of the
OVATEL STATES SYRACOM
5
547.9.61
Filde

14-00000

MDMORANDUM FCR: Calef, Africa Divspion
SUURRY
: Peralation of
Test & Meyerunk

1. Ayeeral is herewith requested to relocate, terminato and
me pament of $2000.000. In return
will be required to sign a gait Clato and Bocreey.
make a
for this
agreement..

2. It is presently planned to relocate subject in Europe, with
the office of security tmasporting subject via MAT as far os Frank
hence he will proceed to any Wstern Suropean country of
his choice and at tis expense. De 2000.01 payment will constitute
his only assete until he can find inful amploy.

3. adequate funds available to the project to cover the
teraination toms and transportation to Frsalhart vis N.

4. Alls also requested to write off and charge to expense
the 000.00 rense of which appreciately $3000.00 10
still mistasing.
Willian R. Ember
٥/١٢/٧/2

Approved:
Amount requested in paragraph one
a approved for payment. Based
upon cover and operational circum-
stanços, payment is not subject to
Federal Income taxes,
--
JOR
Special Contracting Officer
ش

14-00000
1.
Mr. Ernest G. Maycrink
Dear Mr. Maycrink:
:
Effective 31 October 1960, all contracts, oral or written, by and between
you and the United States Government, as represented by the Contracting
Olticer, are hereby terminated by mutual consent of the parties thereto, and
in lieu thereof the following agreement is substituted.

The United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer,
hereby contracts with you as an independent contractor for the submission of
certain information and related services of a confidential nature under the
following terms and conditions:

1. Compensation. In full consideration for the submission of such infor-
mation and service, you will receive from the Government, payable in such
an approved manner as you may direct in writing, the following:

(a) Basic compensation in an amount calculated at the rate of
$6000 per annum

(b) Additional compensation in an amount calculated at the rate
of $3000 per annum for cost-of-living expenses (including
quarters), effective upon your arrival at and applicable only
to your contemplated permanent post of assignment overseas.
Quarters will not be furnished you nor will you accept quartere
provided by a cover facility without prior amendment of this
agreement.

-
2. Тахов. Monies paid you directly or guaranteed by the Government
incer this paragraph constitute i constitute income for Federal tax purposes. You You will
be advised as to the method to be followed in reporting and and paying such taxes
The method as well as the procedures used by this organization to imple-
zentistax reporting responsibilities will be based primarily upon cover
and security requirements. You herein authorize this organisation to with-
bold tazes on said income if it determines such requirements so necessitate.

3. Travel. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for travel and
transportation expenses to and from your permanent post of duty overseas
and for authorized operational travel. You may be entitled to per diem in
lien of subsistence during such travel and, when authorized, while on
temporary duty away from your permanent post of assignment. All travel,
transportation and per diem provided for under this paragraph must be
properly authorized, and expenses incurred hereunder are subject to pay-
Gent and accounting in substantial compliance with Governinent regulations.

4. Operational Expenses. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for
zecessary operational expenses as specifically approved and financially limit
ed by the Government. Such funds will be subject to payment and accounting
ia substantial conformance with applicable Government regulations.

5. Repayment. It is recognised that your failure to account for or refund
azy monies advanced you hereunder shall entitle the Government to withhold
the total amount of such indebtedness or any portion thereof from any monies
dve you under the terms of this contract in such manner as it deems appro-
priate.
:

14-00000-
:
6. Negotiated Benefits. (a) (1), If, in the performance of activities u
"this agreeinent, you incur an injury or illness which is not the result of
gross négligence, willful misconduct, or intemperate act, the Governme
will provide medical, surgical, hospital, transportation and disability be
fits in such amounts and under such conditions as the Covernment in its .
discretion deems proper provided, however, that such benefits shall not
exceed a total of $5000 for the saine injury or illness.

(2) If you die in the performance of activ
hereunder and your death is not the result of your gross negligence, will
misconduct or intemperate act, the Government will pay the sum of $500
to your beneficiary(ies) less any amount paid to you under sub-paragrapi
above if such injury or illness resulted in your death, provided that said
beneficiary(ios) is acceptable to the Government at the time such paymes
to be made. An acceptable beneficiary hereunder is an individual to whe
payment by the U.S. Government can be made without conflicting with its
avowed principles and ideala.

(b) Outstanding performance by you under tu
agreement and your fulfillment of obligations hereunder in an efficient m
ner will result in the Government undertaking your resettlement in an are
mutually agreeable to both parties, to the extent deemed appropriate by
United States Government.

7. Execution of Documents. If, in the performance of services unde
this contract, you assume the custody of Government funds or tako title
record to property of any nature whatsoever and wherever situate, whicl
property has in fact been purchased with montes of the U.S. Government
you hereby recognize and acknowledge the existence of a trust relationsh
either express or constructive, and you agree to execute whatever docur
may be required by this organisation to evidence this relationship.
ار محمد

8. Status. You are not an employee of the United States Government
under this agreement and are not entitled to any benefits normally incide
to an employee status.

9. Funding. If necessary to protect the security of this arrangement
monies due you hereunder may be funded in other than a direct manner.
is understood and agreed that any monies so funded constituto payment_b
the Government in satisfaction of its obligations under this agreement.

10. Cover. (a) it is anticipated that you will undertake a cover ventu
in the course of your performance under this agreement. Such venture:
be approved by the appropriate Covernment representative overgesing y
activities prior to its initiation. Any and all documents which you inay
execute in the course of said cover venture are subordinate to this agret
ment and any contradiction in terms which in any way amplify, extend or
restrict your rights and/or obligations hereunder shall be resolved by th
agreement which shall always be dominant.

(b). To provide capital for your approved cover venture t
Government will loan you $4000to be secured by a non-interest bearing p
isory note, payabie on demand. Said loan will be deposited to an accoun
in a foreign bank and a $3000 letter of credit will be issued you against I.
deposit. The additional $1000 will be released from said account, aftor
approval by the Government representative overseeing your activities.
i
!
i.
:
:

14-00000
(c) You will submit to the Government quarterly income and
expense statements on the cover venture and coplen ples of all tax returns filed
in connection therewith... Your cover accounts thall be kept separate and
distinct from the bank account into which your personal compensation pay
mente are made.

(d) You herein agree that monies loaned you by the Governm
shall be repaid from the profits of the cover venture, in amounts and at
periodic intervals to be established by the Government representative ova:
seeing your activities. After said loan has been completely repaid and all
other obligations, such as local taxes, etc., have been made, you may rot
any further profit derived from said cover venture. However, it is clearl
understood and agreed that your primary obligation under this agreement::
the performance of Governmental activities.

11. Secrecy. All information related to this agreement conveyed the d
instructions, this instrument, or otherwise,, is secret and shall not be di
vulged to any person, organization or government in any form or manner,
"except as authorized by the undersigned Contracting Officer executing this
agreement. It is agreed that any revelation whatsoever of the above Infor
mation will constitute and be an immediate and final breach of this agree-
ment and will result in forfeiture by you of any and all benefits which may
then have accrued to you by reason of this agreement.

12. Instructions. During the term of this agreement, and in your
official cover capacity you herein agree to act in conformance with instruc
tions, oral or written given you by authorized representatives of this orga
zation.
:-

13. Unauthorized Commitments. No promises or commitments pér-
taining to rights, privileges or benefits other than those expressly stipulat
in writing in this agreement or any amendment theroto shall be binding on.
this organization.

14. Term. This contract is effective as of 1 November 1960, and sha..
continue thereafter for a period of two (2) yeare unless sooner terminated
by the Government either;

(a) By sixty (60) days' actual notice to you from the Government, or

(b) Without prior notice, in the event of a breach of this contract by
your violation of the security provisions heroof or by your otherwise
rendering yourself unavailable for acceptable service.

Subject to the availability of appropriations, this agreement may be extand
upon notice from the Government. In the event of voluntary termination on
your part or termination for cause by the Government prior to the expirati
of this agreement or any renewal thereof, you will not be entitled to retura
travel expenses to the United States. Termination or expiration of this agi
ment will not release you from the obligation of any security wath you may
be required to tako.
UNITED STATES GOVERNMEN
;
ACCEPTED:
BY
Contracting Cificer
Ernest G. Maycrink
WITNESS:
APPROVED:
10
60

14-00000

MEMORANDUM POR: Contract Personnel Division
SUBJECT
: WIROGUE/1 Contract (Formerly ABASPIC)
8100 1950

1. A review of the WIROGUE/1 file shoved that subject was under contract for
a period beginning 20 September 1959 through 30 June 1960. Since that date until
20 October 1960, subject vas under SR/DOB COA. On 21 October 1960, the African
Division picked up the case and is preparing to dispatch him on 20 November 1960.

2. It is requested that the contract be brought up to date and amended to
encompass the following points:
5,00
Do
1960.
ontion to rester
A. Effective date: 21 November 1960 through 20 November 1962.
B. Compensation: $500 per month, plus $3000 per annum for housing.
C. Medical: to extent it is necessary to maintain good health.
D. Insurance: $5000 payable to beneficiary.
mutnath
Vaynud upon
JE. Bonus: for outstanding performance, resettlement in another country.
F. Terminstión: ending of all benefits and monies.
3. This contract will have to be prepared for signing prior to 18 November
4. For further information, please contact Mr. Daniel R. Niesciur, X8204.
Slen Julio
Glenn D. Fields
Acting Chief, Africa Division
+ 4,000 openfrarind per nom intials Reaving
to helpind filter pipfits
medical ok-pew Co.
Ansent is on, F.N.-hotels...

14-00000
1.

SECRET

SR/DOB/60-2074
20 October 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR: Special Contracting Officer
THROUGH:
SUBJECT:
REFERENCE:
SR/SS
Attention: Madge Hobb
Project Termination of Ernest G. Maycrink (p)
as independent contractor for SR Division

SR/DOB/59-1735 dated 17 September 1959
SR/DOB/59-1660 dated 24 July 1959

1. Because of the indefinite postponment of Project AESENTINEL,
under which subject individual was engaged, subject has been terminated by
this office on 20 October 1960.

2. Subject individual will be picked up on contract on 21 October
1960 by Africa Division. Subject was paid on 20 October 1960 by this
office ali monies remaining due him as per Engagement of Independent
contractor agreement for Project AESENTINEL. Subject has no further
remunerative claim against the U. S. Government.
Eid
Approveds
J. Keith Reid
Michael Ru
MICHAEL RAE
Chief, SR/DOB
cer

14-00000

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Finance Division
THROUGH
FROM
SUBJECT
REFERENCE
SH/DOB/59/1735
17 September 1959
Special Contrasting Officer
Contract Approving Officer, Michael Rao
Engagement Enga of Ernest 0. MAYCRINK (p) as Independent Contractor
SR/DOB/59/1660, dated 24 July 1959 to Finance Division re sama
Subject

1. Projeet AESENTINEL, under which subject individual has been
engaged, was originally approved through the period 31 March 1960. A request
for renewal and amendment of the project has been submitted to FI, and it is
intended subject individual will be utilised under this project during 1960.

2. The following provisions will apply to subject individual ding
the interim period, 1.9.: 20 September 1959 through 30 June 1960.

3. Term and Project Charge. Subject individual has been engaged
under oral contract for use under Project AESENTINEL. The effective date of the
oral contract is 20 April 1959, and has been extended through the period 31 March
1961, subject to termination by the Governisent upon thirty (30) days actual notice.

4. Becurity Approval. The initial security elearance obtained for
Subject's use, C1/CA No. C-73532, dated 11 March 1959, has been suspended during
the interia period. Requests have been made of the Office of Security (SSD and
Alien Affairs Staff) for sübject's use.

5. Citizenship. Subject is a foreign national.

6. Compansation. Subject will be paid salary in the amount of 3400.00
per month, payable in United States currency.

7. Quarters and Subsistence. Basio quarters and subsistence costs will
be borns by the Bubject. Cocasional incidental expenses will to borno by
SR/DOB Station Funds.

3. Operational Expanses. No Operational Expenses are contemplated
during the period covered.

9. Other Commitments. The following additional commitments have been
mado to the Subjects

14-00000
SECRET
a. Medical Benefits. Subject will receive such dental and
medical benefits as may be necessary to paintain his physical status for his
eventual use on his assigned mission.. Coste to be borne by SR/DOB Station Funda.

b. Insurance. Insurance coverage for death or disability
Incurred in line of duty, not to exceed $5,000.00. Costs chargeable againot Project
AESENT INKL.

o. Resettlement. The initial provisions made for resettlement
of Subject still apply.

d. Entertainment. Basic entertainment expenses will be borne
by Subject. Occasional entertaiment expenses will be borne by SR/DOB Station
Funda.

10. Contingent Obligations. Although no such promise has been made the
Subject, resettlement in the United States could possibly become necessary as a
form of control, should this be deemed necessary from a security viewpoint.

Sudjeet.
11. No commitments other than those stated above have beon made to the

1
12. At such time as Subject ro-anters training for his proposed mission,
about 1 July 1960, all provisions of his initial engagement will again apply.
J
3
APPS
MICHARL RAB
Chief, SR/DOS
Special...g Officer
Dists
Orig. 1- Addressee
1- Contracting Officer
;
SEGRET

14-00000
SECRET

ΤΟΙ
Chief, Finance Division
VIAI
Special Contrasting Officer
R/DOB/59/11.60
24 July 1959
FROHI Contract Approving Officer, Michael Rae
SUBJECT: Engagement of Ernest O. MAICRINK (P) as Independent Contractor.

1. Term and Project Charge. The subject individual has been
engaged under oral contract, for use under Project AFSENTINEL. The
effective date of the oral contract is 20 April 1959, and shall continus
thereafter for a period of one year subject to termination by the
Goverment upon thirty (30) days actual notice.

2. Security Approval. The appropriate security approval for
Subject'a uso has been obtained. Type Operational Approval, No. C-73532,
dated 11 March 1959.

3. Citizenship. The Subject is a foreign national.

4. Compensation. Subject will be paid salary in the amount of
$500.00 per month, payable in United States currency. Of this amount,
he will sotually receive $50.00 per month during training and the duration
of the mission. All unpaid monies will accrue to his credit in an escrow
account, the payment of which will be dependent upon the proper performance
of his duties and be payable upon completion of mission for which engaged.
Provisions also made for payment of bonus not to exceed $10,000.00.

5. Cuartora and Subsistence. The Subject will be furnished quarters
and aubsistence. Those posts to be borne by BR/DOB Station funds.

6. Operational. Expenses.
authorised.
Operational travel and expenses to be paid as officially

Domestic travel costs will be borne by SR/DOS Station funds.
Travel cests to and from the United States, and foreign travel will be
charged against Project AESENTINEL.

b. Operational expenses to be borne by Project AESENTINEL.
Training expenses to be carried by Station Allotment.

14-00000
0
SECRET
-2-
7. Other Cord trants.
Subject
The following additional commitments have been made to the

a. Medical Benefits. Subject will receive such dental and
medical benefits as may be necessary to permit him to properly perform
his assigned aission. Costs to be borne by SR/DOB Station Funds.

b. Insurance. Insurance coverage for death or disability
insurred in line of duty, not to comeed $5,000.00. Costs chargeable
apinst Project ABSENTINEL.

o. Resettlement. Provisions made for resettlement of Subject
in a country other than that in which he was recruited. Crets of
resettlement will not axmeed $1,000.00, and will be chargeable against
Project AESENTINEL.

d. Entertainment. All normal entertainment expanses will be
borne by SR/Dad Station funds.

8. Contingent Obligations. The following has not be promised the
individual, but may have to be mat by the Governments

a. Resettlement in the United States, either as an additional
bonus for the Subject or as a form of control should this become necessary
from a security viopoint.

9. No commitments other than those stated above have been mado to
the Subject.

APPROVED
J.
KEITH REYD
MICHAEL RAR
Chief, En/DCB
:
:
: