14-00000
104-10227-10121 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

(TYPED O/DDF)
0710 L.B. KIRKPATRICK 173
UNIT. 1. G.
DATE. 8856 2 MAY 1961

TO SEE ATTACHED LIST
FROM DIRECTOR
CONF IG
INFO. DCI, D/OCI, DOP, COP, A2DP/A, EE 4, FC 5, 14,
AF 4, HE 4, WH 4, s/c 2

TO ΕΣΕ ΑΤΤAGHED LIST INFO CITE DIR
BOOK MESSAGE 
FROM ASCHAM

1. AS RESULT OF DEFEAT OF THE CUBAN OPERATION CONSIDERABLE
COMMENT CONCERNING KUBARK NOW BEING MADE IN PRESS AND IN CONGRESS.
MANY PROPOSALS ARE BEING AND WILL BE RAISED CONCERNING KUBARK AND
OTHER ACTIVITIES IN THIS AREA OF ODYOKE. ACTUALLY MUCH MIS-
INFORMATION GENERALLY REPORTED AND WHILE SOME PROPOSALS ARE FROM
RESPONSIBLE INDIVIDUALS, THERE ARE MANY DISTORTIONS OF ACTUAL
SITUATION. DETALS OF CUBAN OPERATION ARE SUFFICIENTLY COVERED IN
DEPCIRTEL 1637 AND SUGGEST YOU OBTAIN THIS FOR YOUR INFO. IT IS MY VII V.
THAT KUBARK ACQUITTED ITSELF WELL IN MOST RESPECTS, ALTHOUGH I PLA
TO MEMIT ALL SEAL FALTS TO AS AVAILA
FULL REVIEW OF OPERATION AFTER REASONABLE PERIOD HAS FLAPSED IN
ΤΗΕ ΜΕΑNTIME PRESIDENT HAS DIRECTED GENERAL MAXWELL TAYLOR 10 TA
CLOSE LOOK AT ALL PRACTICES AND PROGRAMS IN AREA OF MILITARY AND
PARAMILITARY, GUERRILLA AND ANTI-GUERRILLA ACTIVITIES WHICH FALL
SHORT OF OUTRIGHT WAR. HE WILL GIVE SPECIAL ATTENTION TO LESSONS
RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERs AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copr
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
ROUTING
SEFERRED
MAY 3012
ROUTINE
VRIORITY
OPERATIONAL
IMMEDIATE
OUT52128
OUT 57125
57347-
31917
14-00000

UNIT
EAT
DATE.
TO
FICMS DIRECTOR
COND
DUO,

10

FROM RECENT EVENTS IN CUBA. IN THIS EFFORT HE WILL BE ASSISTED BY
ATTORNEY GENERAL, CILLEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS, AND MYSELF. HIS
REPORT WILL BE SUBMITTED TO THE PRESIDENT BY MAY 15.

2. WHILE IN NO WAY WISHING TO LESSEN THE SERIOUSNESS OF DEFEAT IN
CUBA BOTH FOR KUBARK AND PBPRIME, I WISH TO ASSURE EVERYBODY THAT
OUR PRIMARY EFFORT SHOULD BE TO LEARN FROM EXPERIENCE, GOOD OR EAD.
FURTHER, UNLESS INSTRUCTED BY COMPETENT AUTHORITY TO THE CONTRARY,
EVERYBODY SHOULD CONTINUE WITH HIS PRESENT ACTIVITIES AND PROJE CTS.

FOR YOUR INFO, WE HAVE FULLY BRIEFED APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF
CONGRESS ON THE CUBAN OPERATION AND IN FACT HAVE MORE THAN EVER
BEFORE DURING THIS SESSION OF CONGRESS KEPT THE ARMED SERVICES AND
APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES ADVISED ON DAILY BASIS OF VITAL INTELLIGENCE,
PERTINENT OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES AND PROBLEMS. WE WILL ENDEABOR

TO ADVISE YOU PROMPTLY OF PERTINENT DEVELOPMENTS IN WASHINGTON
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
ROUTING
PAGE TWO
CITE DIR DIR 37947
OUT 52188

TELPASING OFFICES COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICES
SECRET
Capy Na
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
..:
14-00000
DATE
10
FROM DIRECTOR
CONF,
INFO.
10
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
IDINC
ROUTING
EFERSSOI
ROUTINE
INITIALS
PRIORITY
OPERATIONAL INMALL
IMMEDIATE
PAGE THREE
INFO
CITE DIR
OUT 52128

THAT AFFECT KUBARK, BUT STRESS THAT YOU RECOGNIZE THAT REPORTS
ARE OFTEN MISLEADING.
IN PUBLIC MEDIA DEOPIPPONIESTING
END OF MESSAGE

DDCI (in draft)
COPS (in draft)
ALLEN W. PULLES
RELEASING OFFIC
COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
SECRET Copy M
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROM.BITED.
:
14-00000
ני
n.
ONE
0:
DIRECTOR
SCART
الشركم
OPERATIONAL PITIALS
IMMEDIATE
OUT 52128
D1R 37947
ALGIERS
BRAZZAVILLE
ADDIS ABA BA
ACCRA
CONAKRY
ABIDJAN
NAIROBI
:
MONROVIA
TRIPOLI
RABAT
INFO
VIENNA
FRANKFURT
ATHENS
BERN
NICOSIA
MELBOURNE
RANGOON
PANOM PΕΝΗ
FONOLULU
HONG KONG
DJAKARTA
TOKYO
CITE DIR
::
OKINAWA
SAIPAN
SINGAPORE
ΤΑΙΡΕΙ
BANGKOK
SAIGON
VIENTIANE
KABUL
COLOMBO
NEW DELHI
TEHRAN
LAGOS
LEOPOLDVILLE
SEOUL
BAGHDAD
MOGADISCIO
KUALA LUMPUR
:
KHARTOUM
WELLINGTON
AMMAI
TUNIS
PRETORIA
MANILA
BEIRUT
FATMANDU
SECRET
ALIMENTICATING OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy Nio
14-00000
د
C
:
.
KARACH
MADRID
JIDDA
ANKARA
CAIED
BRUSSELS
OTTAWA
CA
COPENHAGEN
LONDON
1.
HELSINKI
PARIS
:
PARIS (LCPIPIT)
REYKJAVIK
ROME
:
LUXEMBOURG :)
....
THE RAGUE
OSLO
STOCI.HOLM
BUENOS AIRES
LA PAZ
SIO DE JANEIRO
SANTIAGO
...:
S.GOTA
SAN JOSE
::
::
CIUDAD TRUJILLO
COTTO
GUATEMALA CITY
ATAL PACE
IFOUCICALPA
CITY
PANAMA CITY
ASGUACION
LIMA
AJA GILY
SAN SALVADOR
A:CION
MON VIDEO
Li..A
CALACAS
SAN SALVADO
HOWVIDEO
CAS
NOSSIT
SEC...
REPRODUCTION E
C
