1104-10074-10007
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

a of on
that
1. Πάρος Παστέρ
sauce adso
ZBI

ion in hean dirneved to the
Director, bemitted to outmedistolg
Federal Büreau of Investigation)
And
U. 8. Department of Justic
Dear Itr. Hoove
Himmaraly
With reference to your letter of 11 June 1947 requesting
information on policy matters discussed by Foster and certain
members of the Central Committee of the French Communist Party
in Paris, I should like to an sumarise the action taken by thie
on Foster'
ganisation on Foster's trip. A trip. All stations on
itinerary were alerted during the British Empire Conference with
emphasis placed upon Foster's contacts and the content of hمن
conversations with foreign Gommunist afric officiala at Paris, Bol
The first reaction from Paris reported Foster's meeting with
Thores and Duclos and on 7 Be and a planned nesting for the next
day with other nimbars mbars of the Central Committee 1. Committee (this information
was distributed to you in DD-3658 on 9-3658 on 4 April 1947). No adequate
follow-up on this original report was subsequently produced - a
fact to be accounted for primarily by the hesitation of the Surete
Nationale, for political reasons, to give Foster's visit adequate
investigative attention (as reported t to you you in DB-4777 of 1 July
1947),
24
Information on the policy matters discussed at this nesting,
however, was r, was included in a report from H.I.6, Section 7, in May
)copy enclosed herewith). Although the source of tمنط of this report did
not know precisely what happened at this meeting "because
secrecy sas observed, he mentioned several specific topics
allegedly under discussion. This report was not forwarded to you
since it was assumed the report i wie handed directly to your London 24
representative by the British.
by hand
OX REF FORM FILED
IN: 201-3141
201-53438
IC MICROFILMED
54
NAY 6-1955
DATE 8 DEC 1952
I aug. +7 RI COPY
to Director
/ENCL
2inv
10446
Pittman
14-00000

리지
15-4
The attention of our (Paris) station has teen directed to the
actual conversations that took place in this Paris nesting, and
24 there remains a possibility that a verification or expatision of the
1.6 report will be obtained, such additional information will,
of course, be transmitted to you immediately upon its radipt.
incerely
de Bolos

14-00000
OCONCL
COUNTRY
: Italy/Yugoslavia/France/at.Britain/USA
SUBJECT
: William Zebulon FOSTER
ORIGIN
London 15-1
DATE OF INFO : As stated
DATE
May 15, 1947
15-9
10η 15.3.47, our representative in Rome reported that FOS TER
had arrived there on 14.3.47. for a stay of a few dayв.
"On 1.4.47., we heard from Belgrade that gocording to logal
presa reports of 25,3.47., FOSTER had left Jugoslavia on
24.3.47. No details were given regarding his destination,
but the press report mentioned that he had been accompanied
by Lander of the Labour Progressive Party of Can
Canada.
13-4
"A report dated 1.4.47 from Paris, stated that after the
British Communist Party Congress in London, several important
delegates had arrived in Paris among whom were William Z.
POS TER, Tim BUCK LAHAUT, Chief of the Belgian Communist Party,
who had not been in London, and who arrived direct from Brust els
and Harry PoLLITT. At the same time several Communist delegates
who had been present at the W.I.D.F. Congross in Prague, had.
also arrived in Paris, including Nina POPOVA, the U.S.S.R. dele-
gato, as well as delegates from Greece, Brazil, Cube, and the
Viet-Nam. Our source, however, does not know names of any
axcept those mentioned.
"Several meetings were held at the Headquarters of the Central
Committee of the French Communist Party at 44, rue Le Paletier.
At one of these meetings the following were known to have been
present: William POSTER, Tim BUCK, Dolores IBARRURI, Nina
POPOVA, FaurigerTHOREZ, Andre MARTY, Jacques SuCLOSAUVAIS,
CACHIN, BERLIDERACHON MONMOUSSEAU RAJON, 1, Robert ARETIT, and
also George WILLIAMS GAICHAILOV, Comintern Delegate.
*"John PITTMAN, Paris correspondent of the American Da ly Worker'
had acted as interpreter. Although our source does not know
much of what happened at this meeting because great secrecy was
bbserved, he states that the meeting was concerned with uniting
of world democratic forces against international reaction. In
this connection, the French Communist leaders are said to have
very much regretted the difficulty of bringing about the union
between the American Federation of Labour, and the Congress of
Industrial Organizations in the U.S.A.
ENCL. /
FBEONF

14-00000
A
"Jacques. DUCLOS made a special report emphasizing that this was
one of the most important tasks to be carried out by the Communiste
within the C.I.O.
:
"Besides the above, the question of Greece and Turkey was discussed,
notably the question of boycotting of war materials sent to those
countries.
"Finally, the different speakers spoke of the necessity of dofandi:
the U.S.3.R. by all possible means.
"Andre MARTY is said to have specially dealt with the question of
labour in the colonies, emphasising the necessity of bringing about
unity of action among the black, throughout the Arican Continent,
6. g., ir. French, British and Belgian possessiona.
"The above, according to our source, were the principal points
which had been studied during the various moetings of Communist
chfofa in Paris.
"We understand that all other details about FOSTER's arrival and
departure from this country have already been passed to you by
Η. Ι. 5."
24
지
