104-10215-10035
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT J. F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

REPORT COVER SOLELY

CONTROLLED DISSEM

MRSAVE
23 February 1963

CRYPT

ASSET
Source:
Faras. 1-1: former Panamanian Charge in Habana, now in Paris,
who was approached by men working with, Affairs Commission,
employee; and it is said that they have been quite successful in
shipping medicines to Cuba including ship ments to prisoners in
Cuban jails.

Faras. 5 and 6: on or about 20 September obtained the
information because it was addressed to Line of Miami, who is
related to who is a very good friend of

Also attached under cover of this report are the following items
of information of potential interest:

a. Bulletin No. 2 of the National Medical Station in the
Frente Interna Anti-Comunista. It is not known how
received this information. It is believed that this/information
dates to about June or July 1962.

Attachments:
Misc. Medical Info.
Headquarters attn & atts. b/w

File

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEM

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
CONTROLLED DISSEM

-2-

b. Copy of a letter signed by Cmdte Rene A for the
Executive Council of the National Inst. of Surger of
the Ministry of Health, dated 6 June addressed to
Regino BOTTI, President of JUCEPLAN requesting an
approval for the expenditure of $20,000.00 for the
purchase of raw color film from Czechoslovakia. This
film to be used at the national Universities and in
Cuban scientific institutions. Received from about
mid-July from an unidentified correspondent.

c. of Antonio TOLEDO Zetacia (A12 829 419)
who was in the third year at the Medical School, University
of Habana, Report dated 21 August.

d. Translation of a commentary by Virgilio FRAJO Nunez,
leader of the Cuban medical class Habana on 18 August
1962. It was submitted in translated form by
on 26 August. Though this appears to be an interesting
commentary there does not appear to be anything new or
startling in the information.

e. Listing of medical and professional personnel in Habana
which was received through the diplomatic pouch,
Pouch turned over to for duplication, It
provided translations. Envelope had return address
Colegio Teresiano Calle 17 No. 1051 Vedado, Habana.
Addressed to Eduardo ROCO, PO Box 1495. No WAVE traces
on ROCO. Source of this information is not known. It is
believed that the names under this attachment should be
indexed for the Field. No indication of meaning of A,C
and B, but believe they stand for A- Anti-Communist,
B-Neutral and C- Communist.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
CONTROLLED DISSEM
201-662237
