RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

14-00000
104-10187-10110
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
10
SECRET

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

SAL SALVAD
UNIT TIME
VINE 1 WH 1745

C/O STEEL R, FILE

SECRET 282138Z
PRIORITY DIR CITE SALU SSOL
WH DIV CUBA CUBAN DEFECTOR
PERS A. SALV5296

5. DIR 52599
(1~82314.
24
IN-82908
28 SEPTCY.

CHOFFICER CIA OFFICER
SALVADORAN
INTEL CHIEF
1. IN ACCORDANCE REFS AND MET MORNING
CIA OFFICER
28 SEPTEMBER IN OFFICE TO BRIEF HIM ON RECRUITMENT,
CUBAN TARGET 24 SALV INTEL CHIEF
PORTANCE AND SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS. WAS NUCH IMPRESS-

ED AND AGREED ENPHATICALLY ONLY CHECK AND PRESIDENTED WOULD KNOW

BECRUITMENT AND THEY WOULD NAKE NO RECORD OF IT. DURING
CIA OFFICER
CUBAN TARGET
POINTED OUT IS MOST IMPORTANT LOCAL TARGET

BECAUSE HE HAS KNOWLEDGE OF AND ACCESS TO COMMIE PARTIES SALV AND
OTHER CENTRAL AMERICAN COUNTRIES,

CIA OFFICER

2SAONE OF HIS AGENTS WHO ALREADY HAS LEFT SALV
3/17

SECRET

SOURLES&M
NETHODS

SECRET INSPAGE
CUBANASSET SALU. INTEL CHIEF 24
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
ARRANGED CONTACT WIT ACCEPTES SITHOUT QUEST
ION, MADE NO DEMANDS, ORDERED ALL HIS FACILITIES AND UTNOST
COOPERATION TO CIA OFFICER CIA OFFICER BELIEVE THERE HAS BEEN NO
SECURITY PROBLEM TO DATE.

:
3. DO NOT FLAN HIT ANY OTHER TARGETS SALV AT THIS TIME, EXCEPT
DALTON
CUAAN TARGET
SOP TOO IMPORTANT TO RISK DRAWING ATTENTION
CIA
DALTON
TO PRESENCE OR RECRUITMENT EFFORTS. PLAN TO CONTINUE.
INTERROGATION AND RECRUITMENT EFFORT. HIS SILENCE AND
COLLASGRATIO!! IMPORTANT IN THEMSELVES BUT ALSO FOR FORE GOING REASON.
24 SALV. INTEL CHIEF
CIA
AGREES HANDLE EXACTLY AS WISHES.

SOURCES ME
HETHODS

24
SALY. INTEL CHIEF
24
APPEARED CHT IN PRESIDENT ANL
CENT Aili
SECRET
* ONLY ALTERNATIVE

SECRET
