104-10183-10043
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE: 5 JUNE-1963
TO: ROME
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: WE 6
INFO: DDP, CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, CCS 2, FI, SAS 8, S/C
IG: STEPHEN I. MUNGRAVE
INIT: DC/WE/4/X-
INDEX: YES
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X-REF TO FILE NO.
SIGNATURE:
SECRET
ROUTING INDEX:
FILE IN CS FILE NO.
NO INDEX

SIG CEN:
DEFERRED
X ROUTINE
CITE DIR: 44488
KEYWAY PERUMEN AMWHIP
1. AMWHIP/1 (IDEN A), LONG TIME KUBARK ASSET FOR PERUMEN OPS, WILL VISIT ROME 5 TO 15 JUNE TO OPEN JEWELRY STORE IN IDEN B. HAS OFFERED HE OF SERVICE TO STA IN ANY WAY POSSIBLE INCLUDING FURNISHING COVER IN NEW STORE. THOUGH LEFT PERUMEN EARLY 1961, REMAINS PERSONA GRATA TO REGIME SINCE GAVE AID TO CURRENT REGIME DURING PRE-REVOLUTION DAYS AND TOOK NO OVERT OPPOSITION STAND. IS CONSIDERED BY CURRENT REGIME AS A POLITICAL BUSINESSMAN AND CAN ENTER OFFICIAL INSTALLATIONS MEET WITH PERUMEN DIPLOMATS. FOR EXAMPLE, PLANS FUND PERUMEN PASSPORT AT EMPASSY, PARIS, ON CURRENT TRIP.

2. IN PARTNERSHIP WITH IDEN C WILL OPEN JEWELRY STORE ROME. SAYS IDEN C FULLY TRUSTWORTHY ANTI-REGIME AND COULD BE MADE WITTING OF ARRANGEMENTS MADE ROME IF SO DESIRED. IDEN C WAS WITTING SOURCE OF PEPRIME ODUNIT ATTACHE I: FBRUMEN PRIOR 1961.

3. AMWHIP/1 IS PARTNER IN NEW YORK OF IDEN D WHICH IS CLOSER TO INITIAL IES OF MILAN. COULD ALSO OFFER COVER IN IDEN E FUT BELIEVES LESS SE CUS SINCE HD HAS MORE DIRECT CONTROL OVER ROME JEWELRY STORE.

CS COPY
COORDINATING OFFICERS:
SECRET
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE:
SECRET
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE:
TO:
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF:
INFO:

INDEX
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

NO
INDEX: YES
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X-REF TO FILE NO.
SIGNATURE
PAGE TWO

ROUTING
DEFERRED
X ROUTINE
CITE DIR: 44133
4. RECOMMEND STA ESTABLISH CONTACT BOONEST DISCUSS VARIOUS OPS PROBLEMS POSSIBILITIES, INCL COVER FOR PERUMEN OPS SUPPORT ASSET AS PLAINED. IF COVER FOR SUBJ DIR 38810 STILL UNRESOLVED, STA SHOULD RAISE PROBLEM WITH AMWIIIP/1, REALIZING THOUGH THAT LATTER MAY BE RELUCTANT OFFER COVER IN OWN FIRM TO PERSON WHO BROKE CLAMOROUSLY WITH REGIME. STA MAY ALSO WISH ABK AMWHIP/1 VISIT OF- FICIAL PERUMEN INSTALLATIONS ROME FOR MEETINGS ASSESSMENTS TARGET PERSONALITIES. STA SHOULD FEEL FREE DISCUSS ALL OTHER PERUMEN PROBLEMS DESIRED. IN ALL ABOVE, STA MUST ABIDE BY AMWEIP/1 JUDGEMENT. NOTE LATTER IS NOT PRINCIPAL AGENT TYPE CI ROCRUITER. HAS BEEN HIGHLY VALUABLE AS WITTING INFORMANT, SPOTTER, OPS SUPPORT TYPE.

5. AMEIP/1 WILL STAY WITH IDEN F. CAN BE REACHED THERE OR PREFERABLY THROUGE IDEN B MANAGEMENT. IN MILAN CAN BE REACHED THROUGH IDEN E. OFFICER MAKING CONTACT SHOULD IDENTIFY SELF AS FRIEND OF FILL THOMPSON AND REFER TO THOMPSON'S TALK WITE AMIIP/1 OF 31 MAY IN NEW YORK. SHOULD URE ZOLISH IN INITIAL PHOSE CONTACT. AM-HIP/1'S ENGLISH AND ITALIAN ARE FAIR BUT RECOMMEND SUTSTANTIVE DISCUESIONS BE HELD IN AMWHIP NATIVE LANGUAGE.

END OF MESSAGE

SAS/208 Hr. (in draft)
COORDINATING OFFICER:
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.
