104-10170-10091 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

Distribution:

By copy to: 2 - Washington
1 - Santiago de Cuba
1 - 11c3
1 - Endusay

Orally to: None

1 - level, Air Attesta

References:

Coarce, Operational Data, cad Comments:
Cabjocts Plans and Activities of the Directoric Revolucionario
Eources Juri Sinches 705

1. Pert of the information in the attached report was forwarded ty
HAVA 031.

2. Sourco, al had provicably not through a ritual cogdates, cent card through azother student contest of Lil that baced to talk to. Ulhas acasco is vental ty tho Cuba elite to vas cot clandestinoly. The informatica in the attached report elicital frea hia during meetings on 9 and 10 March 1957.

Classification
SECRET

Удо

APERTURE CARD REPRODUCTION
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

COUNTRY: Cuba
SUBJECT: Plans end Activities of the Directcrio Rovolucionario
PLACE ACQUIRED: Habana
SECRET
FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

REPORT NO. ERH-1432
DATE OF INFO: October 1955-
9 March 1957
DATE ACQUIRED: 9-10 March 1957
DATE OF REPORT: 11 March 1957

SOURCE, SOURCE EVALUATION, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT:
Cancer der of Directorio Revolucionario (F)
steal of Contents 3

2.1cc32
- CJ MY Sanches, lectors of the Directele 10. Esvelacicario Leatharoitical Student Directory) formed at tavarat: of a 10 11 ,111 עד:rida, with two delegates of TiCATED Diante Carlo Secarris to plan the uprising cgainst the c CS-1012 celegates of the thros croups corect ci a plan watch celled for p to lead ta oricato and the other to press to pro into cotica at n al Juch Meanch Палеттаかいw 1:111a 1a the Gloria laestra fiting, calciates: Cool, fomor lilnister of Leier, cealal Carles Fo
sethacinatio cf. Co talo Lalico Fico in Acta October 1953 other of the Directio Poccinatio to go into Waing because they vero cessed by Presidentia ta cathars of eco Lico'o cam, theo theo they love tea stirely to chair, che col prepare their can to 12,140 Stoly a to the era catia taa to arcatat the icleod. Castelo 10 !ry persemel, ro carto, call co FIA to je vo nos boca incorporated into terap sllat of peper Dicatorio has been a contact vita cty of ما معت figating begins. ovens will desert or go over to the Liscaterloo clo To Firesterte conce or todorated why the F2D creep, walch 13 tocil to ta vellحت المستct a fato cotica yo, To Directorio ات ماstics to his crap losters to remain calot, tut the reasons behind these instructions have not been determined.

2
SECRET
51-53PAZIOUS EDITIONS WAY BE USED
RI COPY 19-9-8-39

14-00000
CUTAINANLE
