104-10192-10266 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

DATE: 27 MAY 62
TO: DIRECTOR
FROM: JMWAVE
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE SECRET ROUTING: 1. 2 6 3. PA/PROP 4. 5.

ACTION: TFW 10(MR CHARLES MATT, TFW, NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT 1830 27 MAY)
INFO: DCI, DCP, ADDP, CA 2, CA/PRG, CA/PROP, S/C 2 OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

IN 41885

OPI: CIP CITE WAVE 4077
GY FOSE
1. MIAMI HERALD 27 MAY CARRIES FRONT PAGE ITEM BY JAMES BUCHANAN. ENTITLED "MIRO FADES AS EXILE CHIEF: THREE LATIN LEADERS BEHIND RAY". ARTICLE FLATLY STATES MIRO AND COUNCIL HAVE BEEN REPLACED BY MANUEL RAY WITH ON, CON MOOZ MARIN, PRES ROLILO BETANCOURT AND FORMER PRES OFFIGHEDAS, THAT RAY HAS TAKEN OVER POST "WITH THE BLESSING OF THE UNITED STATES". FURTHER, ARTICLES STATES "FROM VARIETY SOURCES HERALD LEASHED THAT MIRO WASINOTIFIED OF CHANGE ONLY THIS
WEEK AND THAT DAYS REAPPOINTMENT AS "CHIEF IN EXILE" CAME FROM "UNDER- OTHES USA" ACCORDING TO JOASI GODOY, PROVISIONAL MRP HEAD IN . AFTER SUBISHING RESUME CUZAN ACTIVITIES SINCE ORIGIN OF AMBUD, ETOLE CREDITS CUBANS IN MIAMI WITH SAYING "NEW MAN IN FIELD IS ADOLF . WHO HAS BEEN SPECIAL ASST TO STATE DEPT AND IS ALSO PEES KENNEDY'S SPECIAL TASK FORCE ON LATIN AMERICA". IMPLICATION BEING THAT BERLE IS RUNNING NEW UNITED STATES SPONSORED CUBAN EFFORT.
2. THIS RELEASE CAUSING SCE FUROP IN LOCAL CUBAN COLONY TO EXTENT AT LEAST ONE OPS AGENT DESTINED FOR ISOLATION TRAINING HAS ASKED TO BE BELIEVED IF THERE ANY TRUTH THIS STORY. MEANWHILE WAVE

SECRET
REPRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Cooy No.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
DATE:
TO:
FROM:
ACTION:
INFO:
SECRET ROUTING: 1. 2 5. 6. 3. 4.

PAGE 2 WAVE 4077 IN 41885

CHECKS WITH KNOWLEDGEABLE CONTACTS HAS PRODUCED LITTLE OTHER THAN WILLIAM S. WIRALDA'S STATEMENT THAT BUCHANAN JOURNALISTIC REPUTATION INDICATES HE INACCURATE AND SENSATIONALIST. AMCLATTER-1 AND PASS OV ALTER-1 ATTEMPTING DISCREETLY TRACE AUCHANAN SOURCE FOR "U.S. BLESSING."
3. BUCHANAN HAS PREVIOUSLY ATTACKED MIRO IE DURING RETURN PLAYA SIPON PRISONERS MIAMI. HAVE NO REAL INSIGHT INFO SIGNIFICANCE THESE ATTACKS BUT BELIEVE THEY COULD REFLECT BUCHANAN OR MIAMI HERALD ATTEMPTS FORCE CHANGES IN UNITES STATES POSTURE RE CUBA.
4. EXPECT ARTICLE VILL HAVE FURTHER REPROCUSSIONS AS IT SPREADS. WISH ALERT HOS THAT IT MAY BE NECESSARY INITIATE ACTION DISCREDIT BUCHANAN STORY AS WELL AS REASSURE MIRO. WILL FORWARD SUGGESTIONS THIS OFCARD AFTER WE HAVE OPPORTUNITY FURTHER ASSESS STORY'S IMPACT.
5. POUCHING CLIPPING 28 MAY
END OF MESSAGE

SECRET
REPRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.
