104-10170-10112
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

14-00000

F 29497
F116921

SECRET CALE 3115322

T. DY CIESTELSAT (SUPPORT) - CITE UA-500
A 116921

CASE 16633 EPT 1661 WE PORWARD THE FOLLOWING FROM NEW YORK:

1. THE INTERESTHA FI RPT FI AREA DIVISIO WELCOMED YOUR DETAILED
INVENTORY OF THE VERSON HPT VERSON PATERIAL. HAVANA FI RPT FI STATION
HAS ADVISED THAT VERSON HAS IN TOUCH WITLAMERICAN EMBASSY IN PAST AND
IS OF OPINION THAT I PORTANT PART OF VEPSON PATERIAL IS IN CIA
POSSESSION. THIS LAST PROBABILITY - SUPPORTED BY YOUR DESCRIPTION AND
OPINIONS - HAS PRACTICALLY ELICINATED DESIRE TO SECURE THE FOLDERS.
THE NEED FOR INVOLVING CUSTONS IN A SERIES OF DELIVERIES AND VORSON'S
DESIRE TO HAVE THE FOLDERS RETURNED ARE FURTHER FACTORS COMPLICATING
THE SITUATION. FINALLY FI/WERPT FIMVE DIVISION STATES THAT
ΤΗΣ CONDITIONS INPOSED BY VERSON GARRANT A SUSPICION THAT THIS DEAL HAS
DEEN DESIGNED FOR EXPLOITATION OF THE PRI10 CROUP RPT PRIO GROUP IN THE
NOVEMBER ELECTIONS IN CURA.

2. IN VIEW OF THE ABOVE, WE HAVE NOT RPT NOT FORWARDED YOUR LETTER
HE HAVE
BUT SUBSTITUTED A DRAFT ALONG LINES SUGGESTED BY FI RPT FI.
POUCHED YOU A COPY AND YOU WILL NOTE THAT IS IS VAGUE AND EVASIVE.
THIS HAS BEEN DOVE DELIBERATELY WITH THE HOPE THAT IT WILL AROUSE A
REPLY; FOR ODVIOUS REASON THE WASHINGTON RETURN ADDRESS IS INDICATED.
FI BILL RPT FIBILL CONTINUE TO PREPARE REPLIES UNTIL SUCH TIME AS THE
OFFER IS FINALLY REJECTED OR YOU ARGLASKED TO PARTICIPATE IN ANOTHER
MELTING.

3. WE TRUST THE ARRANGEMENTS SESCRIBED ABOVE MEET WIT
YOU
APPROVAL. IF THERE ARE ANY CERPT CC ASPECTS YOU CAN CALL TO OUR
ATTENTION, ADVISE AND THEY WILL BE USED TO ADJUST THE OFERATION.

30/10552 SEP COS

14-00000

F 29499
F 116921

(PRIORITY) SECRET CANE 122 10 REY CALEANS FROM WASHINSTON
TO MANY FROM ARNCHAFT BY CIESIELSKI CIAZ MA-9879
A li692

THIS IS SER CASE 1563 RPT 166294N WITH
SLATESENTATIVES OF CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS BOT CARLOS PRIO SOCANNAS..
GE CONVERSATION ALDEE COSISISI ON 1 RPT (BERTENGER 54. ACCORDING
TO FISUR EPT FISH DIVISION, FRANK JACKSON FRI FRANK JACKSON OF
RIANI, FLORIDA APPROACHES PRESIDENTIAL SIDE SHERMAN ADAאמחאת זקי פא
ADAMS WITH A STORY INAT INTELLIGENCE MATERIAL CONCERNING SOVIET PLANS
IN THE CARRIBEAN AREA COULD DE MADS AVAILABLE TIPOUCH CARIOS PRIC
IT APPZAPS THAT SHERGAN ABANS TOLD JAGON HAIGHT BE OF
INTEREST TO CIA APT CIS AND INDICATED THAT HE WOULD TAKE APPROPRIATE
ACTION.

::
FRANK JACKSON IS REPORTED TO BE CONNECTED FITH AN ORGANIZATION
ANGUS AS WORLD SURVEYSS SE ALSO SERVES AS PUBLIC RELATIONS REPRESENTA-
TIVE FOR PRIO, IN SPITE OF THIS INSINESS CONNECTION IT IS SELIEVED
THAT JACKSON'S MOTIVATION IS CORRECT. THIS CONCLUSION IS BASED ON
THE FACT THAT HE HAS HAD SERVICE WITH ONT RIPT ONE AND THE SECRET
SERVICE, AND IS PERSONALLY VOUCHED FOR BY A KEYBER OF THE CIA RPT
CIA SECURITY SFFICE.

AS YOU KNOW, PRIO IS CURRENTLY INVOLVED WITH THE DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE AND SCHEDULED TO STAND TRIAL ONDAN ARNS SNUCCIING CHARGE
ESL SI EPT FI AREA DIVISION HAS TAKEN INFO CONSIDERATION THE POSSIBILITY
GIAT THIS CURRENT PRIC OFFER IS A MANEUVER DESIGNED TO PLACE ΤΙΣ ΕΝ
AFT US GOVERNMENT IN AN ANKHARD-POSITION, ON THE OTHER AND
JACKSON STATES THAT THE TRIO GROUP IS SORING THIS OFFER WITHOUT ANY
TROCIT OF FINANCIAL RETURN OR POLITICAL FAVORS

14-00000

THE AFOVE INSGRMATION IS FURNISHED FOR BACKGROUND. WE HAVE ASKER
SECURITY TO COORDINATE WITH FOR SPT FAI ON A CRASH BASIS AND WILL
ANK YOU TO TAME NO LOT NO ACTION UNTIL TUS COCASDATION IS EFFECTED
AT THE GASHDICTON LEVEL. PLEASE CONSIDER THIS WIFE AS AN ALERT AND
ADVISE US OF YOUR ESTIMATED DEPARTURE FIRE SO THAT WE CAN NOTIST
YOU BY TELEPHONE THAT THE NECESSARY COORDINATION HAS BEEN COMPLETED.
AT HIANS JACKSON CAN BE CONTACTED THROUGH THE FOLLOWING TELEPHONE
NEIDER 45-6633 RPF 46-5558, AND TOLD THAT YOנה אז מה אוAN AS A
FOLLOWED TO ΤΗΣ ΑΣΕΤΙΝΟ ΜΕ HAD IN WASHINGTON WITH MR. HENRY THOMAS
RPY MR. HENRY THOMAS (THOMAS IS THE SECURITY REPRESENTATIVE DESCRIGE
ASOVE AS JACKSON'S FRIEND).

IT IS NOT EPT NOT KNGUN WHETHER PRIS VILL ATTEND PERSONALLY OP
SEND REPING SENTATIVES. IT IS DOLIEVED THAT A BI-LINGUAL REPRESENTATIVE
WILL RE BRONOMY BY THE FRIG SEOPLE. AT THE MOSTING YOU ARE ASKED
TO DO THE FOLIOSINC

A. SECURU AS MUCH METALLED INFORMATION AROUT THE OFFER OF SOVIET
INTELLIGENCE PLANS AS FOSSIBLE.

B. SECURE THE NAMES OF THE REPRESENTATIVES.
:
IWIFORTUNATELY, YOU WILL BE IN NO UPT NO POSITION TO MAKE ANY
COMMITMENTS AND THE PRIO REPRESENTATIVES SHOULD BE SO ADVISED SY
UNFORTUNATELY, YOU WILL BE IN NO KPT NO POSITIΟΥ ΤΟ ΠΑΚΣ ΑΝΥ
COMMITMENTS AND THE PRIO REPRESENTATIVES SHOULD SE SO ADVISED BY
YOU, YOU WILL ALSO ADVISE THOMAS ON THIS POINT AS YOUR FIRST WESTING
IT SIN, WE FEEL THAT IT WILL BE DEST IF YOU 10.12.17 ANGELTOGE
OF YOUTE CIA PPRT CIA AFFILIATION TO JACKSON AND INTRODUCE YOURSELS
ΤΟ ΤΗΣ FRIO HLY AS A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE OS RPT US COVERNMENT WHO
IS VOUCHED FOR DY JACKSON,

31/34552 SEP CAS

14-0000
A-16721
Chief Catact Division
22 Soptrator 1958

Calef, w Orleans Office

Croc 16603
15-7157
77
1. Cartel and suppliciting our coveral long-distance telephone con
recestiens, I repere bereith concerning my interview with Mr. Frank Jactam and
two evitere cetha Prio Escarrial crop in Miasi, Florida, on 1714 19 steater
1956, mis porties of the portion of repert la concerned with the unchanics of the operation
red the peroccalities involved. It would do, I preaves, of little interess to Fl.
& suppleantal section cracains a descriptics of the material offered by מפלסס פלל
religuan, chich partica, essure, you will turn over to 31/3 niviatas

2.val in Hiani, I called at the office of the Fel with a vi view
do inferuing that Amy of by preas and of the general nature of the armirties
I proposed to engage in, co that the egante of the Bureau vould not be undoly
onpriced if they learned of my activities from other agents who were presעגלמת
doping cy proposed castects wider ausveillance. The SAC was absent from the offios.
Inecordingly talked with cut of the luty officers, a Special Agent based
li
tweser, visa 2 had esa berors and who has frequsitly cooperated with our repres
tetive in Hiani, Jaha d. Tyor. Schilldecker was rost pleasant and cooperative.
I informed his that the weiter co which Ivan engaged had been carrillanted with
FIT boudmortero tr. Charles lintes end that the Bureau interposes
objections. The told him, in general terms, about the activities or Fr. Frank
Jackson in echirgton. The geal caid that he had kamen Kickson Jar about 10 Foss
and that he considered Jackson to be an arrellaple person and a complets opportunias.
Do nasd that cackson had been in Havel Intelligence during World War Is the
since the end of bis eger of active duty ho had held a naber of jobs in cao c
which he had been able to make a succes. These Jobs Lucluded the agency for a
airs nenufacturer, the position of darity aheriff in liinat Beach, the agency for
a star of concrete blocks and several other caterprises. In one of his ada
Jechear had beca suspected of pilferdge and had been discharged on that accoste,
althat ac prosecution was intituted. Jackson is now, according to Schillac
operating a private detective agency and is also acting as public relations dituer
20 to and a grow. We is believed to be the emer of a corporasion recru da
"ע סטיקראeny, lec," the crack operations of which are neva.

3. Belldecker suid that Jackson claimed to have excellent sources or
tefanation on Cuba and itar he particularly had referred to & Cantala Salvator
Piaty Vereen, a political refugee from Cuba, who had engaged quite intensively
in at-Camtot activities, Schilldecker said that the "legal attache" (
131 6 נ ואור מכתב representative) as the US Datasty la Havana bed at one
size witten to the SAC 1 Alant about Verson and had said that the latter hed
once does goalties to obtain valuable information concerning the cosirisics
of the Crisis is Gabe, but that, Labis belief, Verson was given to nights
• Lover je

14-00000

Chief, Contact Division
-2-
22 Debember 1954

A. Delhi) decker pointed out that, although the criatzel cases against
Prio and Curti Lad been cided with pleas of nolo contendere and fires, casas vara
still pending ngaines four other Cabea exiles who are allegedly engaged in the
gun-rueries piot. He exid that inasmuch as the cases were priestly be interest
of the Custers Reperiunt, the I was wt immediately interested. Es voice the
epision that Contrar representatives were maintaining surveillance on the defea
dants in the various exito.
P
مد
5. Besuming from the Fut office, I telephoned Jackson, an arranged,
31
ntified aypalt as directed in 4-9979. Jackson caid that 1
would be 1000cikle to arrange a meeting with the Cubans that efterson, since the
leader of the group would not be available. No caid that a seating could be arranged
for the following relog, Duairy, 19 September, at 11:00a.m., I accordingly
arranged to arct the group in a road at the Columbus Hotel which I had resarcod
for that purpos I suggested a preliminary rating with Jackson co ro to obtain
information about the persons as I was to see, but ha esid that that would not be
Feasible on Saturazy and that he would drop in on Sunday mersing a for minutes
ahead of the root of the group.

6. Jachera arrived at the designated room on sunday morning at 10:45
a.n. He did not request the exhibition of credentials and i did not exhibit then.
Re said that the meeting with the Cubane would have to be postponed until 4:00
o'clock my afternoon, Inasmuch as the leader of the map was at that time
engaged in preparing a speech. he said he would bring two ambers of the proup
to the Columbus Hotel at 4:00p.m., 250 I agreed to meet thes at that time.

7. Jackson acid that the two men he wanted me to talk to vero Banor
Carlos Novia and a Captain Varson, whose full rane Mr. Jackson Cid not know. La
said that Carles Havia is a leading Cuban consulting engineer and 10 a aratato
of the US Military Academy of the class of 1919. For a short time ho ves President
of Coba and was culzoquently habensader to the C3. He is a mezcer of Pric's
Authentico Party, but belongu to the conservative wing which is highly critical
of soue of Priels esticus. Novia vas exiled from Cuba when his nato vas found
on an envelope ta the possession of Sanchez Archgo. He is under indictment 2n
the US District Court but has pleaded not guilty to charges of gun-running proving
ont of the Bane laricent conceretug which Prio pleados "nolo contendara."
:
3. Captain Verson, according to Jaciteen, is and has been for many years
the president of the Anti-Communist Leugus of Cuta. During a part of the termes
of Crau dan tartis and Prio, Versen heid the rank of Captuis in the Cuban arziy
end vas in charge of a counter-erplaress section dealing with Cuban Communists.
Person, in his official capacity, was largely instrumental in taring the Caviet
Zobepcy in Havana closed. He was removed by Catiata from Lis Army post La 1932
and, after grailag sone months in sanctuary in the Uruguayan benny in Havana,
he came to Klost in June 0? 1994.

9. Jeckoca cize wished me to meet Prio, Dr. Pedro Martinez farega aad
ais Ortega. Prio vas currently a New York. Kartines was formerly Artsecador to
as 13 and a celerate to the United Nations. He was described by Jackaca as one
f the most fillicat persoas he had ever wet and he said that I could obtain a

14-00000

Chies, Contact Division
-3-
22 September, 1934

great deal of transseנית נ nta concerning the presest political and oconcate
situation in Ca Ca was not fediately available cad tad no contactica vith
the documents allegedly pousessed us Verion. Ortega, & farmer newspaper coluspist
cad mexber of Pailstars Consultative Council, var also described by Java
prolific source of information on ban political matters. No teo var 0 1
diately aviable and dad no correction with the Vireon docuseats, Is the circan
stence, I told son that I would defer laterviews with Kirtines cad Ortega
uatia sas fiture tiza.

12: At 4:00p.m. ca Conday, 19 September, Jackson rotumiod to the room
in the Colums Corel, bringing with bia Bevor levia and Captain Verzon, Jackson
Introduced be as ur. Eruton, a pouconja I I had supplied. Ne told them that I vae
a regrescotative of the US Government and that we were interested in the decussats
in Vera's possessios is assumed then that the information which they sieht give
ro vouid be treated is highly classified caterial, and he then left the meeting.
It developed that Captain Verson could cot speak asy English (lociconially,
Jackson cosa not speak Speutch), is that it was necessary to converts with his
ת מסeria, do acted as laterpreter. Novia is flecat in Egliva and tale.

11. The substance of the information supplied by Versca conceratog tha
decimants in his possession is contained in the second part of this repost.
Varsan appeared to attach a very high historical value to the contests or his.
Cocuments and read anxious to make them available to Us authorities. Pa dia
clared any desire for a fee and merely said that he wished to reicin the originale,
einca Le considered that they constituted an authentic account of the form of
the Communist Rovement in Ours, but that we would be entirely welcas to pastostad
or otherwise copy the contents of his files.

12. At the conclusion of the interview, I thanked the tra Cubana for
their courtesy and cocperation and told Secor Revia that I would get in touch
with his later in the week either directly or through Un. Jackson.

13. Iocless herewith a letter to Hevia confirming our fatersat in the
Varsen decuberts and asking hiu to notisy ze when it is expected that they will
begin wriving, so that we may attempt to facilitate their catry. You will note
thes I have signed the letter with the name "Orator" shich in how I was intres
duced to Levis and Versen by Jicknon. I think the letter shouid bo celled in
Washington rather than in New Orleans, so as to ellay hay cuspicions that Fovis any
barbor the: I an not actually a government representative. You will note that I
bave suggested that levia write to es in New Orleans in care of Miss Soon K. Fatna
at Post Office Lox 1016. He will, no doubt, saw that this is a letter-drop.

14. In view of the fact that I refer by implication to the Custoas
Dopartasat, I suggest that you hold the letter to Rovia until you or Clecielaitt
bave clacussed the cattor with Ir. Emerick, who is the superier of Ir. Wyatt,
the Eupervista; Cusicas Agent in Mient. I suggest that the letter de sent air
cail, unregistered. I have left the dete blank and I request that you fusert it
before sailing. If you wish to change the letter in any way, please do 25.
levia daca act, of course, know ay benduritius, so that the latter can be elgsa
y eryone.

Zurke:
Hallen P. isurts.

14-00000

SERET
Security Tarumation

26 August 1953
F1/6921
E-

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chiefs All Fisld Offices
FROM
SUBJECT
REFERENCE
:Chief, Contact Division (L/A)
: Case 14063
: CO-B-67546 (ARIS-3589)
CO-A-20309 (80-3094)
CUBA
-
Economic
527777
A-40192
A 1169

1. For your information, the following requirements were submitted by
OCI for action by FI.
2. Background
Wes-116921
00-A-20309 states that Carlos Prio has been transferring funds
from his Miami bank to his brother Francisco Frio. c/o Guaranty Trust
Company. New York. 00-6-67546 atates that there is a rumor that
Carlos Frio has invested money in a chain of hotels in Switzerland.

For some months past Carlos Prio has been suspected of preparing
an invasion of Cuba to oust Batista; however, other reports indicate
that Francisco Prio is engaged in handling transfers out of the US
for Carlos "for investment abroad", 1. e., for unspecified non-
revolutionary purposes.
3. Requirements

RHeller/th
a, Evidence that Cars Prio has been investing in Swiss hotels
and details of the transion, e.g., date, price paid, intermediaries,
etc.

b. Any information available of other foreign investments that
he has made,
β
Hanya
(Ε.
m C
E. M. ASHCRAFT
A8
SECRET

14-00000

E27877
F116921
: Crise of Collection & Discsaimtios.
Cortast Divisios, 00 (1/4 Branch)
later of Peada Prio Roservas (10-6-9999, 1966)
8 September 1953

116/921221 S-116921
bank at which Carlos and Fransis Prie Eccerras have accounte
ather Carlos sor Precisse has seeght the bank's advies en
Fincas cocount show that in early Jata 1953 there
2 tat the highest balance resched vas
153 e secourt had fallen to
that dمائ.
sont shows the followings
:
7.
Daatte
ہیں
190.00
3,200.00
40,000,00
2,000,00
Credits
Pros Jal 135772.12
50,000
57,712.12
57,377.16
57.287.13
51,521.13
11,527.13
9327 13
6.12.13.
93,210
108,27.13
103.11
3,221,11
2,300,00
ily
July
رام
15,000
Jaly
5,000,00
100,000.00
:
•apcait of 1,500 on 3 July was in the form of a csak drava he
in ot Anni 13.ch, Pla
-8
Jest of 13615,000 on 9 July was in the form of a check on the id
tined lork, the drewer's algastare illegidio.
Teraval of 26 August vas in cash. Carlos asted for one thousand
was given mostly ona mandred Gallar bills and a for five lustredi
1952 עות, the most amasval activity of Carlos escount vas the deposit
15 September, a 158150,000 deposit on 24 Reptember, and a wit
cer of 198140,000. Since the ed thermal tas by abeck, which wa
is the depositor after cancellation, the identity of the payee in ast
wo. Prio has a safety deposit et a branch of this bark and her husbani

14-00000
8853
s to it. We probably could learn the anat a ta ativity mich
acakan place with regard to this bar if it wald sarve my goal purpos
:
i. During the week of 28 August-4 Bastenker 150, Carlos presented oss
rared roseal peces la lle at the beat, requartlag deller hada.
was told the currency swild have to do as to the Base Pardoal de Guba
vunatation and that the rank in all hallwald vert to hase the
the peresa mohanging the pocos. Carles rahastantly agreed to
t paid he had previously cald a large res of passes to another bank
faulty. Carice sold his reason for requesting the embargo vas
* falda devaluation of the Cuban peso because of the replدها منجمه ف
old reaves Le the t
1:0٠٠/
رماديون Laformation was ande available tid the understandi
و منشيه C7 Internal vos caly. If there are leguiries camarning
plan all aris Letres, artecaiea .
A-8
P: Gaaraty Trust Co. of Bow York

14-00000

SECRET TO WASHINGTON FROM NEW YORK
F 116921
TO ASHCRAFT FOR LA (MCCREA) FROM LEA--SECURITY INFORMATION--CITE
NY-9115

CASE 14,863 RPT 14,963
:
FOR CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY.
:
A-2
5-116 921
OUR CONTACT AT THE GUARANTY TRUST ADVISED THAT/INSOFAR AS HE WAS
ABLE TO LEARN NEITHER CARLOS NOR FRANCISCO PRIO/HAS SOUGHT THE
ADVICE OF ANY OFFICER OF THE BANK CONCERNING FOREIGN INVESTMENTS..
BOTH CARLOS AND FRANCISCO HAVE ACCOUNTS AT THE GUARANTY TRUST.

THE ACCOUNT OF FRANCISCO SHOWS THAT IN EARLY JUNE 53, RFT 53,
THERE WAS A BALANCE OF $4,841.72 RPT $4,841.72; THAT THE HIGHEST
BALANCE REACHED WAS $14,841.72 RPT $14,841.72 ON 19 APT 19. JUNE
AND THAT AS OF 30 RPT 32 JUL 33 RPT 53 THERE WAS A BALANCE IN TΗΣ
ACCOUNT OF $1,434.38 RPT $1,434.38; THERE HAS BEEN NO ACTIVITY
SINCE THAT DATE.
:
A TRABS RPT TRANSCRIPT OF CARLOS ACCOUNT SHOWS THE FOLLOWING
ACTIVITY IN 33 APT 531
CARLOS PRIO SOCARROS
i
84/19922

14-00000

DEUITS
CREDITS
PREV BAL 7,718.12
MAY 27
53,800.00
1
57,718.12
JUNE 1
340.89
57,377.13
12
158.60
51,427.13
17
5,760.00
51,527.13
AP,000.00
11,527.13
2,000.00
9,527.13
18
2,808.08
6,727.13
JULY 3
86,580.68
93,227.13
9
15.ece.co
108,227.13
29
3,008.00
183,227.13
AUG 26
100,800.00
3,227.13

THE DEPOSIT OF 386,80
BUST THIS PARA PLEASE. THANKS.

ΤΗΣ DEPOSIT OF $86,500 RPT $86,500 CN 3 RPT 3 JULY WAS IN THE
FORM OF A CHECK DRAWN BY MARIA SOLEDAD ALBARPT MARIA SOLEDAD ALBA,
ΜΙΑΜΙ ΒΣΑΤΗ, FLORD RPT FLORIDA.
55
THE DEPOSIT OF $15,000 RPT $15,680 GN 9 RPT 9 JULY WAS IN THE
FORM OF A CHECK DRAWN ON THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA, NEW YORK. THE
DRAWER'S SIGNATURE WAS ILLEGIBILE.
SCOTIA
THE DEBIT OF $100,200 RPT S168,822 ON 26 RPT 26 AUGUST WAS A
WITHDRAWAL IN CASH MADE ON THAT DATE BY CARLOS WHO ASKED FOR BILLS
OF ONE THOUSAND DOLLAR DENOMINATION BUT WAS GIVEN MOSTLY ALL ONE
HUNDRED DOLLAR BILLS AND A FEW OF FIVE HUNDRED DOLLAR DENOMINATION.

14-00000

2
TAE HOST USUSUAL ACTIVITY LY THE ACCOURING 1977
RPT 1952 WAS THE DEPOSIT OF 345,650 RFT 245, ECE ON 3 RFT 25 SEPTEMBER
1952 RFT 1952 AND A 315826 RFT 3154,CES DEPOSIT ON 29 RPT 29
SEPTEMBER 1952 RFT 1953, NEITHER OF CHICH CANDGE IDENTIFIED, AND A
WITHDRAWAL IN OCTOBER 1 RFT 1SE BY CHECK IN THE SUM OF 8142,602
APT $140,608. SINCE ALL CANCELLED CHECKS ARE RETURNED TO ΤΗΣ
DEPOSITOR AT THE END OF EACH NORTH THIS CHECK IS NOT AVAILABLE
FOR ΣΧΑΜΙΝATION.

WE HAVE ALSO BEEN INFORMED THAT THERE IS A SAFETY DEPOSIT BOX IN
THE NAME OF MRS. CARLOS PRIO/AT THE BANK, TO WHICH HER HUSBAND
HAS ACCESS. WE HAVE NOT ATTEMPTED TO FIND OUT THE EXTENT OF ΤΗΣ
ACTIVITY WHICH HAS TAKEN PLACE IN CONNECTION WITH THIS BOX BUT
COULD POSSIBLY DO SO IF IT WOULD SERVE ANY GOOD PURPOSE.

WITHIN THE PAST WEEK CARLOS PRIO PRESENTED ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND
PESOS ΤΟ ΤΗΣ BANK AND REQUESTED CASH IN EXCHANGE THEREFOR. WE
UNDERSTAND THAT THE ENTIRE AMOUNT WAS IN NEW BILLS. HE WAS TOLD
THAT THE CURRENCY WOULD HAVE TO BE SENT TO CUBA FOR EXAMINATION
AND THAT IN ALL PROBABILITY THE BANCO NACIONAL DE CUBA WOULD WANT
TO KNOW THE IDENTITY OF THE PERSON EXCHANGING THE PESOS. CARLOS
SAID HE WOULD RATHER NOT HAVE HIS NAME DISCLOSED BUT CONSENTED TO
DE NAMED IF THE BANK INSISTED UPON IT. AT THAT TIME, CARLOS TOLD
THE BANK OFFICIALS THAT HE HAD PREVIOUSLY SOLD A LARGE SUM OF PESOS
TO ANOTHER BANK WITHOUT ANY DIFFICULTY.
:
APPARENTLY IN THE COURSE OF THE NEGOTIATIONS FOR THE EXCHANGE
ΟF ΤΗΣ PESOS CARLOS REMARKED THAT HE FEARS A DEVALUATION OF TΗΣ
CUBAN CURRENCY BECAUSE OF THE RAFID DEPLETION OF CUBAN GOLD RESERVES
IN THIS COUNTRY, WHICH WOULD RESULT IN A LARGE FINANCIAL LOSS TO
HIM.

OUR CONTACT IS AT THE MAIN OFFICE OF THE GUARANTY TRUST AND ΤΗΣ
ACCOUNT AND SAFETY BOX OF THE PRIO'S ARE LOCATED IN ONE OF THE
DRANCHES. BECAUSE OF THE IDENTITY OF THE DEPOSITOR AND THE MANNER
IN WHICH THE ABOVE INFORMATION CAS NECESSARILY COTAINED, OUR
CONTACT HAS ASKED THAT THE DATA BE TREATED IN THE STRICTEST
CONFIDENCE. ACCORDINGLY THIS INFORMATION MUST BE RESTRICTED TO
CIA SPT CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY...
24/19882

14-00000
Chief, Office of Collection & Diesestentica
Chief, Contect Division, 00, (1/4 Brama)
F116-921
127877
10 September 1953
24877A 116921
Fimalal Activities of Carles Prio Bodarres (4-9595, 18-966)
1. On 2 Septesbar 1953, Carles Prio Sosarras converted
98,000 Cuban pesos to 13 currency at a bank, The bank la
ant that referred to in our senorant of 6 Esptember 1993 on
the save subject. In this second trancastice, the bank bept
a record of none of the bills issued to Prie.
4. If there are Inquiries concerning this casermedeation,
please call Harry A. MoCrea, extension 28.
:
M
HOT-91.6
8.A. ASKCRAFT
Orig filed in 35519
