1104-10070-10079
3
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH
To Chief, Task Force W
M
PRO
POSED
X
FROM Chief of Station, JMWAVE
Aka
operational/GYROSE
GReview and Analysis of AMFAUNA Operation
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
Action Required:

14.P
PROCESSING
ACTION
MARKED FOR MODEXING
RO IRDLING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED
HEADQUADRIAS DESK
AIDS IRDEXING
PLIGHED
MED
1966

1. Traces on AMFAUNAS 2 through 23, identified in Attachment E.
POAS on AMFAUNAS 2, 3, 4, 6, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17, 18, 19.
K
2. Ascertain whether AMFAUNA-3 is of operational interest to
ODIBEX (see paragraph 15b).

3. Forward evaluations of documentary intelligence provided by
AMFAUNA-4 (see paragraph 56).

Summary

4. AMFAUNA-1 is a Cuban national who was recruited and trained in
the United States and returned legally to Cuba(in March 1961 to serve as 24
resident agent in Havana.) Since then he has built a net (of over twenty 24
sub-agents and has sent back 140 S/W messages, from which upwards of
fifty intelligence disseminations have been made. He is highly
motivated for his work and under effective control by JMWAVE. The
quality of his production is, for the most part, very good and improving
although he is at times distracted by an understandable interest in
para-military operations. Operationally he is very skillful; however,
he has been known to take unnecessary risks. There is no reason to
think that he is under hostile control nor that the operation is likely
in the future to be turned against us. There is, however, the real
risk that he may one day fall into a G-2 trap baited with the Escambray
guerrillas. If so, this will be due to the fact that contact with the
guerrillas was his first assignment and, although he has been re-
directed to intelligence collection, he sometimes seems to feel that
he has failed in his primary mission. This, plus the fact that he
evident believes that the end is now very close, is apt to make him.
Vulnerave to an appeal from the "heroes of the Escambr

Present Status of the Operation - Modus Operandi:
INDEX
メー

5. There is considerable evidence that AMFAUNA-1 is extraordinarily
Attachments: A-D, Incl N'S
✓ Charts A,B,C,D h/w7Nttached
Attch. E - Identities USC (AMFAUNAS_2-23)
Attch. F - Identities CROSS REFERENCE TO

CS COPY
attacked.
Qtt. 1,243N att. HNSM
Distribution:
3-Headquartersltd. S of CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
DATE TYPED
SPATCHE
11 July 1962
f.
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFGA-4703
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
19-6-50/3
201-291230

#8904
...
APERTURE CARD REPRODUCTIONS
心
14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
DIEPATON GYMBOL AND KUMMIER
UFGA-4703
skillful in the practice of security. He has built a false identity
which he uses wherever possible in his operational contacts, he is
usually selective and cautious in his choice of collaborators, he
takos pains to check on the security of his sub-agents, and he uses
a system of cutouts for much of his work.

6. Some of AMFAUNA-1's older collaborators know him by trae name,
but wherever possible he introduces himself to new contacts by the
name of "Julie ROJO"TE ROJO7Evidently he is now living the part of (Julio 07
ROJO to such an extent that he has in effect a double identity. In
one of his S/W messages he asked that the widow of AMCUSP-1 be warned
not to reveal that ("Julio") is in Cuba. Since AMFAUNA-1 is in Cuba
legally, and all his family and friends know it, this can only mean
that she should not reveal that AMFAUNA-1 and ("Julio ROJO") are07.
identical.
201-291230 PSFudoNYAN used by sub. of 201
7. In recruiting sub-agents, AMFAUNA-1 relies primarily on his
own judgment and intuition. If he approves of a person, he will
recruit him. However, he has shown himself to be very cautious in
granting his approval. He has reported two persons whom he does not
completely trust because, while otherwise well qualified, they drink.
too much and are indiscreet. For two other examples, AMBOA-1 and
LITAU-5 approached him separately and revealed their relationship with
KUBARK, hoping to collaborate with him; AMFAUNA-1 treated them both
with reserve while he checked them out with JMWAVE. He has submitted 04
the names of other contacts for checking. In the case of AMFAUNA-4, Go
whom he recruited without prior checking because time did not permit
it, he put his misgivings in writing: "Right away AMFAUNA-1 arranged
for a personal interview, taking utmost precautions, since we have
had sad previous experiences with members of CASTRO's armed forces."
:.
8. Once he has recruited a sub-agent, AMFAUNA-1 manages to keep.
an independent eye on the former's security. On more than one occasion
he has reported that one of his sub-agents is under G-2 surveillance,
and that for the time being he is staying away from him.
ho
9
9. In general AMFAUNA-1 seems to trust in the efficiency of his
security precautions. On 25 February 1962 he reported that Identity
11 had been caught, but that he was in no danger because he had been
compartmented from her. This compartmentation is achieved by the use
of five cutouts: AMFAUNA-2, AMFAUNA-3, AMFAUNA-4 AMBOA-1, and
AMFAUNA 5, who maintain contact for AMFAUNA-1 with most if not all of
his sub-agents. Chart A, which shows AMFAUNA-1 in direct contact with
AMFAUNAS 7 through 13, may be in error on this point. It would be
more in keeping with AMFAUNA-1's known modus operandi for him to have
cutouts between himself and these sub-agents. If there is a cutout or
cutouts here, their identity is not yet known. There may also be an
unreported cutout between AMFAUNA-1 and AMFAUNA-4.
women.
women.
10. Except for AMFAUNATH, all the above-mentioned cutouts are
Two of his support agents, including his mail drop, are also
AMFAUNA-1 has not been explicit on this point, but it is
believed that he shares his favors between them. If so, he has the
best of cover for his relations with them. It also clarifies the
otherwise puzzling picture of a legal resident of Cuba sleeping in a
different bed each night. This practice must certainly reduce the
possibility that the C-2 will pick him up for routine questioning.
i
Communications:
11. The bulk of AMFAUNA-1's communications come via S/W. His
méssages to JMWAVE are sent to accommodation addresses serviced by
AMPAN-2 and AMCUTLER-1. JMWAVE's messages to him are addressed to
AMFAUNA-14. AMFAUNA-1 can also(diplomatic couriers) for sending
documents and other material unsuitable for S/W. He has a personal
contact with two of the officers (of the Spanish Embassy who either
152 bring it to the JMWAVE area and mail it to AMCUTIER-1, or carry it
(on Undmithའ
A
!
43.
!
PERTURE CARD REPRODUCTIONS
14-00000
CONTINUATION OP
ОНОРАТСИ
second via AMFAUNA-14.
CLAGDIFICATION
SECRET
DISPATOM BYMARIA AND RU
UFGA-4703
12. The courier system can also work in the other direction.
AMFAUNA-1 has been supplied with S/W materials for his own use by way
of the Spanish Embassy, and for the use of AMRIPE-1 and AMRAVEL-1 by
way of the (Argentine Embassy) 24
13. A third communications channel existe in the weekly telephone
conversations (between) AMCUTLER-1) and his wife AMFAUNA-2.0/ It is useful
for passing signals already prearranged by S/W, and for confirming that
AMFAUNA-1 Is still at liberty. If he is ever arrested, the news will
probably come firat by this meane.

Finances:
:
14. Expenses of the operation are $500 per month. The money is
given monthly to Identity-3 or Identity-4 in the JMWAVE area. Identity-
3, upon receipt of the dollars, notifies identity-l in Havana who in
turn pays Cuban pesos to AMFAUNA-1. Identity-4 follows the same pro-
cedure with Identity-2. AMFAUNA-1 confirms receipt of this money
by S/W.

Sub-agents:

15. Following is a description of the sub-agents in the AMFAUNA
net, including AMCOG-2 and AMBOA-1 who, although they have their own
independent connections to JMWAVE, have to some extent joined forces.
with AMFAUNA-1. For the identities of AMFAUNAS 2 through 23, see
Attachment E, forwarded, under separate cover
이
a. ALFAUNA-23 AMFAUNA-1's sister-in-law, she formerly
served as his contact to members of his net(in asylum in the 08
various embassies, and now serves as his cutout to at least
the following:

(1) AMCOG-2: She first appears in AMFAUNA-l's
correspondence in his S/W message No. 14 dated
19 May 1961, where he mentions that she was his
link to a radio station operated by the (Rescate) 29
organization. Nothing ever came of this proposed
communications channel, but AMCOG-2 remained in
contact with AMFAUNA-1, helping him arrange asylum
for burned agents and passing some of his communica-
tions to diplomatic couriers 4 AMFAUNA-1 reported
on 9 July 1961, in his S/W message No. 21, that
AMCOG-2 knew him only by his alias (Julio ROJO07In
his message No. 118, dated June 1962, he reported
that AMFAUNA-15 had accidentally blown his true
name to AMCOG-2. For a further discussion of AMCOG-2,
and her relation to the security of AMFAUNA-1 see
paragraph 56 below.
.ol
이
(2) AMFAUNA-14: She is the secretary of (AMCOG-2)
with whom she has done clandestine work. She now
serves AMFAUNA-1 as an accommodation address and as
a source of information. Message No. 112 dated 18
April 1962 included the name of a Communist nurse
who has allegedly come to the United States with
the mission of infiltrating a counter-revolutionary
group. AMÉAUNA-14) Obtained this information from a
doctor in a Havana clinic She also is AMFAUNA-1's
(link to the Dutch diplomatic pouch24
이
(3) AMFAUNA-15: She is a relative of AMFAUNA-14)
and a friend, friend of AMCOG-2. She is also the wife of
AMFAUNA-17) and a friend of AMFAUNA-16 who is now
Cimprisoned on the Isle of Pines) Pines and sends her
14-00000
CONTINUATION
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
DIERATON SYRISOL AND NUMBER
ร
UFGA-4703
b. AMFAUNA-3: AMFAUNA-1's first mention of her
is in his 57W message No. 127 dated 4 May 1962. She has
provided information on military hospitals and has a
trusted contact (Identity 7) (in the G-2)24She also was
AMFAUNA-1's cutout to Identity-12, who was a(Havana 08
contact) of the (guerrilla leader Oswaldo RAMIREZ)24 In
early June 1962 she was approached by Identity-8 who
claimed to be the new contact to the (RAMIREZ) organization.
(See also paragraph 58 below.) On 15% March 1962 AMFAUNA-3
was traced by ODIBEX who proposed to use her in their
Operation CASINO. A negative trace reply was given at that
time. Headquarters is requested to ascertain whether ODIBEX
has a valid prior claim on this agent.
이
c. AMFAUNA-4 He is a high-ranking Cuban Army officer
who has provided AMFAUNA-1 with documentary information which
ought to be of some value, although JMWAVE has not yet seen
it, it having gone to Headquarters via (Madrid) through the
channel described in paragraph 1l above 15-2He also claims to
be receiving information from Identity-9 and Identity-10.
AMFAUNA-1 was introduced to AMFAUNA-4) by AMCOG-2 who in turn
was introduced to him by Identity-13.01 For a further
discussion of this matter, see paragraph 56 below.

d. AMBOA-1: The origin of AMFAUNA-1's contact with
this agent, who has also been recruited independently by
JMWAVE, is uncertain. He first mentioned her in October
08
who had formerly been a contact of AMCUSP-1 and who subsequent-
ly defected. AMFAUNA-1's last mention of her was on 15
November when he reported that she had given him a map show-
ing artillery installations on the south coast of Las Villas,
It is possible that AMFAUNA-1 has broken contact with her,
but since he has not reported having done so it is considered
1961 as his cutout to Identity-14, (a a Cubana Airlines Pilot)
more likely that she remains his cutout to two Cubana Airlines 08
pilots) who are known to be still reporting:

(1) AMFAUNA-18: He was recruited in March 1962.
and has provided AMFAUNA-1 with passenger lists) 24
and the location of artillery emplacements) which
he has (spotted from his aircraft). It is not known
how AMFAUNA-1 first met AMFAUNA-18, and it is
possible that AMFAUNA-1 meets directly with him.
It is only surmised that AMBOA-1, is his cutout to
him.
2
(2) AMFAUNA-19: He was recruited at the same
time as AMFAUNA-18. Although AMFAUNA-1 did not
explicitly say so, it can be inferred that he and
AMFAUNA-18 are witting of each other's recruitment.

e.
AMFAUNA-5: AMFAUNA-1 first reported her as an agent
in September 1961. To She is the sister-in-law of AMFAUNA-23)
former (naval officer) who had been an agent of AMFAUNA-1 as
early as July 1961 but had been caught and imprisoned for try-
ing to leave Cuba illegally.24 She has been the source of
information on Cuban (airfields, and is the cutout to a group
of people employed at Rancho Boyeros Airport).24It is believed
that the identities of all these people have not yet been
reported, but they seem to be effective. On 29 May 1962
AMFAUNA-1 reported the arrival of an undocumented Soviet plane
at Rancho Boyeros, and forwarded the passenger list which he
said one of his agents had obtained clandestinely. Following
are the persons with whom AMFAUNA-5 is known to be in contact.
이
(1) AMEAUNA-20) her husband. AMFAUNA-1 has written
that he has broken personal contact with this man.
APERTURE CARD REPRODUCTIONS,
14-00000
CHANGE
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
ات
CLABQIFICATION
SECRET
ΟΑΩΡΙΤΟΝ ΟΥΑΣSDOL AND NUMBER
UFGA-4703
(2) AMPAN 12: A former (chief engineer of the 08
Office of Airports) he was recruited by Havana
Station in 1960, and has been corresponding with
JHWAVE by S/W.

08
(3) AMFAUNA-21: A(chief inspector of mechanicso
for Cubana Airlines. He has stated his willingness
to sabotage air traffic) but his precise contribution
to AMFAUNA-1's operations is not known.

(4) AMFAUNA-22: A chief of electrical instruments 08
for Cubana Airlines) Nothing more is known about this
man.
f.
이
(5) AMFAUNA-23: Brother-in-law of AM CAMFAUNA-S
AMFAUNA-6: A support agent. ΑΜFAUNA-1 has written
that she has no access to information of interest, but is an
intelligent and brava female whom he uses for cover and to
secure overt information.

g. AMFAUNA-7: An old friend of AMFAUNA-1 and his
brother AMCUTLER-ISO AMCUTLER-150 He works closely with AMFAUNA-8 and 24
formerly was AMFAUNA-1's cutout to the Uruguayan Embassy)

h. AMFAUNA-8: An old friend of AMFAUNA-1 and his 08
brother AMCUTLER-150 He has a contact in the (Interior Ministry)
and works closely with AMFAUNA-7.
०४
08
i. AMFAUNA-9: A former(sales manager) for a(coffee firm)
he secures information of general interest from(coffee buyers)
travelling throughout Cuba.
०४
♡
j. AMFAUNA-10:10 A widow of a bank employee, she has
contacts in in Santiago de Cuba) and in the Cupan Navy and G-2.24
She is also related to the son of Fidel CASTRO and has provided
information on the son's) whereabouts and indoctrination.

k.
(the
AMFAUNA-11:
об
24
An employee of the (Ministry of Foreign
Trade, and the wife of a Communist member of the Central 08
Planning Board (JUCEPLAN), she has reported political intelligence.
In March 1962 AMFAUNA-1 reported that she was under surveillance
and that he was therefore avoiding her.

l. AMFAUNA-12: He obtains information from contacts
within the Cuban Petroleum Institute (ICP) 108

m.
08
AMFAUNA-13: An(insurance) company employee with
contacts in the Cuban Government, he has reported information
on G-2 activities in Cuba and the United States.

Background and Motivation:
08
116, AMFAUNA-1 is a (39-year-old) Cuban male, born in Cuba of
Spanish parents. He has tried his hand at various kinds of work
Including the import business, journalism (he was once editor of
Diario de la Marina) and insurance) He has also ventured into politics,
ving been a candidate (of the Autentico Party in 1958) During the
Spanish Civil War he was a member of the (Falanje Espanola) and during
World War II, until the entry of the United States, he was an agent24
of the German Intelligence Service. The JMWAVE case officer who
trained AMFAUNA-1 in tradecraft in March 1961 (see UFGA-1247 of 10
April 1961) observed that he already had a grounding in clandestine
techniques.
pleasant, intelligent fellow" and "the most astute member of the team"
comprising himself, ANCUS and AMCUTLER-1001
The case officer also characterized AMFAUNA-1 as
اة
11
a
ARENLUNE CARD REPRODUCTIONS
せいぜ
14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
09
DREPATON SOLIDOL AND NUMBER
UFGA-4703
children, all still in Cuba(as of March 1961) However, it is noted
that the two children have different matronymics, that neither of them
is his wife's last name, and that all three dependents have different
addresses. It is assumed that this is his third wife. Since AMFAUNA-1
has never mentioned her in any of his S/W correspondence, it is also
assumed that she has gone the way of her two predecessors.
01.
18. AMCUTLER-1) who was questioned on this point, said that his
Drother is living in (Guanabacoa) with his present wife, that he has been
married only once before and has only one child from the first marriage
This information is not considered definitive, because the last point
directly contradicted by AMFAUNA-1's PRO Part I which he wrote him-
solf, but it is included here for what it may be worth. AMCUTLER-1)0/
added that his brother has no sexual relations with his sub-agents
except what is considered normal and acceptable by Cuban standards.

19. The elements of AMFAUNA-1's motivation, then, include an
adventurous spirit and a taste for clandestine work. Although "anti-
Communism" may be an overworked expression, it would seem to apply in
the case of AMFAUNA-1, gif his former membership in the Falange) and the
(German Intelligence Service)can be taken as indicators. Also included
should be the loss of a (freight forwarding business) which started out
promisingly in 1959 but folded up after a year of CASTRO's revolution-
ary government. Finally, although these factors did not yet exist
in January 1961 when he was recruited, AMFAUNA-1 is certainly affected
now by the death of AMCUSP-1 and the imprisonment of his father.)
Control
이
08
20。 It is evident from his S/W messages that AMFAUNA-1 derives
great personal satisfaction from his work against the CASTRO regime.
His connection with KUBARK provides him with the means to do this work.
This is believed to be a strong element of control. There have been
many opportunities to test this control, by ordering AMFAUNA-1 to do
something or to desist from doing something else, and the control is
believed to be effective.
Previous History of the Operation - January to May 1961:
21. AMFAUNA-1 was engaged in some form of clandestine work against
the CASTRO regime as early as (December 196009 As with so much else in
this operation, details are lacking, but it is known that he already
had an understanding with Identity-29 whom he had known for twenty
Vears.06 In December 1960, Identity-29 introduced AMFAUNA-1 to Identity-
27, Can MAR coordinator from Matanzas, who had been introduced to..
Identity-29 by one of the members of her group, Identity-28. Identity-
37.in in turn brought in Identity-26, (a fellow MAR Coordinator.

22. In January 1961, AMEAUNA-10 came legally to the United States
together with AMCUSP-1) and AMCUTLER-1) and looked up their old friend
AMJAG-4, who at that time was heavily engaged in work with the
resistance groups. AMJAG-4 introduced them to a JMWAVE case officer
who instructed them to return to Cuba, to form contacts with as many
resistance groups as possible, and to report their progress through
CAMRUNG-1) who was JMWAVE's principal agent in the paramilitary field.
Also imlthe JMWAVE area at this time were Identity-19 and Identity-23
whom they met and with whom they were later to work.
이
0923. 23. AMFAUNA-1, AMCUTLER-1), and AMCUSP-1 P-1 returned to Cuba in
January 1961, They dispatched Identity-16 (to the Escambray, Identity-
17 (to Sancti Spiritus, Identity-18 (to Trinidad) and Identity-37 to
Manzanillo, Bayamo, and Santiago de Cuba.10 An unidentified courier was
put into touch with the guerrilla leader Identity-15, and AMCUSP-1) 이
and AMCUTLER-1) went to Cienfuegos with Identity-19 to make contacts
with insurgent groups there.
دیا
0
G
だい
14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
time, as did AMRUNG-1) |
CLASSIFICATION
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
SECRET
UFGA-4703
and
25. To support the activities of AMFAUNA-1, AMCUT
AMCUTLER-1)
ACUSP-1 it was agreed that JMWAVE would deposit $1,000 monthly into
the local bank account of AMCUSP-1 and the latter would provide the
equivalent in Cuban pesos from hislown resources inside Cuba.
26. ARCUSP-1) and AMCUTLER-1) continued to busy themselves with
1
이
preparations for supporting the April invasion They contacted
salesmen for Identity-19 and also for Identity-20 who was intended to
be a radio operator for Identity-23. Although AMFAUNA-1 knew all
these people, he was compartmented from these operations to some
rextent, so that after the arrest of AMCUSP-1) and the escape of
Identity-21 who, at their request, provided cover as travelling drug 08
CUTLER-1 he had some difficulty in reestablishing contact with them.
01
27. AMCUTLER-1) and AMFAUNA-1, working together, held meetings
with Identity-33, a Cuban Army oficer stationed at the (San Antonio delo
Los Banos base, e, and discussed plans for supporting the invasion.
AMFAUNA-1 also contacted Identity-35, the (commanding officer of the 06
08
San Julian base and arranged for its surrender, using Identity-34,"
head of the (OA in Pinar del Rio as a cutout. He had another agent
on the base, Identity 36, and had already recruited AMFAUNA-11, an
employee of the (Ministry of Foreign Trade) ০
ol
09
26. On 18 March March 1961) AMCUSP-1) and AMRUNG-1) were arrested by the
G-2 while holding a clandestine meeting. At first this was not
regarded as too serious a matter. The G-2 had broken into the meeting
only after having been alerted by the suspicious behavior of a woman ol
lookout, and it was believed ieved that they had no real evidence. AMCUTLER-1)
came to the JMWAVE area on (3 April 1961) and returned again to Cuba on
10 April still optimistic that AMCUSP-1) and AMRUNG-1) would either be
released or could be helped to escape. However, However, one of the other 201
prisoners apparently confessed and implicated AMCUSP-1) and AMRUNG-1, who
were executed on 20 April, with the wave of arrests accompanying the
April 17 invasion, AMCUTLER-1 took asylum in the Venezuelan (Venezuelan) Embassy and
AMFAUNA-1 went temporarily linto hiding.
il
29. On 27 April 1961 AMFAUNA-1 resumed operations by sending
Identities 24, 25, 26 and 27 to collect order of battle information
in Matanzas. Identities 26 and 27 returned to Havana to report.
Identity-25 remained in Matanzas, and Identity-24 was caught by the G-2.
30. In May 1961, Identity-30 informed AMFAUNA-1 that some kind of
conspiratorial activity was going on in the home of AMCOG-2. He
arranged to meet her through Identit: -30 whom he thereafter used as a
cutout to her.
31. This phase of the AMFAUNA operation is diagrammed in Chart B.
The following people participating in this phase were separated from the
operation by known causes:
b.
c.
By arrest and execution:
(1) AMCUSP-1)
(2) AMRUNG-1) of
By arrest and detention:
(1) Identity-24
(2) Identity-28
By asylum or escape to the U.S.:
(1) AMCUTLER-1) 01
(2) Identity-23
9.
APEKINGE CAND REPRODUCTIONS
14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATIO
SECRET
DIGRATON BYN IDOL AND NUMBER
UFGA-4703
Previous History of the Operation - June to November 1961:
32. In the period beginning June 1961, AMFAUNA-1 first began
a
aking regular use of AMFAUNA-201 He needed contact with his
collaborators who were in asylum in various Western, embassies, and
with AMEAUNA-2) (openly visiting her hus husband) AMCUTLER-1)(cheevas
natural choice for the job.0% with the departure of Identities 29
Land 30, AMFAUNA-1 began using AMFAUNA-2) as as cutout to AMCOG-2 who was
useful to him for her ability to obtaiPithe help of (diplomatic ≥ 4
couriers.) In August 1961 he used this channel to send out some order
of battle information obtained by Identity-21.
33. Identity-21 continued to help Identities 19 and 20 until they
took asylum in the Argentine Embassy)08 He also served as AMFAUNA-l'e
cutout to Identity-50 who was a close friend of the (insurgent leader06,06
Cewaldo RAMIREZ. For cutouts to Identity-21, AMFAUNA-1 first used
Identity-51 and then AMFAUNA-8. AMFAUNA-8 also served as cutout to
Identity-45 about whom nothing more is known than his name: 6
34.
?
AMFAUNA-1 developed another contact to Oswaldo RAMIREZ during
this period ingthe person of Identity-52, a(close relative of RAMIREZ) 05
and a former lieutenant in the Rebel Army. Identity-52 met AMFAUNA-1
and Identity-21 on 27 October 1961, and then remained in touch through
Identity-51. A few weeks later Identity-52 was arrested.
35. At some time during the period June to November 1961, AMFAUNA --
began collaborating with AMBOA-1. The origin of this collaboration is
not known, but it appears that the initiative was taken by AMBOA-1.
AMFAUNA-1 reported that she had revealed to him the fact that she has
a channel of S/W communication, to KUBARK, and that she had claimed to
be a friend of the widow of AMCUSP-1) AMFAUNA-1 asked JMWAVE to
confirm her bona fides, and this was done. AMBOA-L6then began working
AMFAUNA-1's cutout to Identity-14, a (Cubana Airlines pilot who in of
turn was receiving information from Identity 40, an employee of Cubana
A some time prior to November 1961, Identity-40 was fired from her job
and held for interrogation by the G-2.
36. During the same period AMFAUNA-I added the following new
-agents:
A
GRANGE RO
a.
b.
AMFAUNA-23 (for description see paragraph 15e5 above).
AMFAUNA-5 (for description ser paragraph 15e above).

C. Identity-41, a person who allegedly was collaborating
with several other clandestine groups. He had two sub-agents
in the Ministry of Public Works Identities 42 and 43.
production has been attributable to these people.

d,
No
08
Identity-46, a clerk in the Ministry of Communications
who allegedly was able to obtain the text of cables) between (Cuba ill
and Czechoslovakia. Nothing ever came of this contact.

e.
Identity-47, (a
In
,a secretary to the Chief of the Revolution
ary Armed Forces. AMFAUNA-1 obtained some order of battle
information from her, apparently on an unwitting basis.
August 1961 he reported that he was dropping her because she
was a strong Communist and had given him information which he
considered of doubtful reliability.

f. Identity-48, a foreman Con the Havana docks who provided
some order of battle information.

g.
Identity-49, (Chief of Maritime Police in Cienfuegos 08
Although his recruitment was reported, AMFAUNA-1 never mentioned
him again.
08
APERTURE CARD REPRODUCTIONS
14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
DISPATCH GYMBOL AND NUMBILA
UFGA-4703
and AMFAUNA-1 hid him in Havana until he was able to get asylum for
him in the Ecuadorian Embassy

38. This phase of the AMFAUNA operation is diagrammed in Chart C.
The following people participating in this phase were separated from
the operation by known causes:

a. By arrest and detention:

(1) Identity 19 (subsequently es aped and took asylum
in the Argentine Embassy)08

(2) Identity 20 (subsequently escaped and took asylum
in the Argentine Embassy)

(3) Identity 40 (interrogateo by G-2, but the duration
of her detention is not known).

(4) Identity 52.

b. By asylum:

(1) Identity 21

(2) Identity 37.

Previous History of the Operation
December 1961 to April 1962:
39. During the periodo from December 1961 to April 1962. AMFAUNA-1
continued to use AMFAUNA-2) as a cutout to AMCO6-2. The latter was 24
given a lead in March 1962 from Identity-13, one of her diplomatic con-
tacts, to a disaffected Cuban Army officer, AMEAUNA-40