104-10215-10018 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INDEX: YES
NO 2.41813
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
201-261813
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
X-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID ☑ RET. TO BRANCH

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : MEXICO CITY

ACTION: SR 6

INFO : CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, FI, RI/AN, WH 7, RF 2

R
C SECRET 2000172 IN 83496 R
0 P DIR CITE MEXI 5444 C/S COMMENT: *DID NOT DESIRE COLD STREET 0
Y REDWOOD LCIMPROVE SPOT APPROACH TO BAKULIN Y
REF DIR 45798

1. SINCE REF STATION HAS TRIED SOPT CANDIDATES FOR
PLAUSIBLE ACCESS VALENTIN VASILYEVICH BAKULIN WHOSE OVERT ACTIVITY
IS PRINCIPALLY THAT OF SUPPLYING PROPAGANDA FILMS TO INTERESTED R
I LOCAL GROUPS. C
C
O 2. SOURCE SEYMOUR D. TRINNICH, POSSIBLE ACCESS ASSET IS ARTURO P
Y CARRILLO ESPARZA D.POB 3 JULY 1940 MEXICO CITY. Y
CARRILLO IS GRADUATE STUDENT UNAM FACULTY SCIENCES, COMPLETING !!!
DOCTORATE THEORETICAL PHYSICS, IS MEMBER OF COMMITTEE WHICH
OPERATES CINE CLUB, APPEARS SPEAK AUTHORITATIVELY RE FINANCING AND
FILM PROCUREMENT, CLUB HAS GOTTEN FILMS IN PAST FROM SOVEMB.
(REQUEST HQS TRACES AND INITIATION POA, HAVE NO LOCAL TRACES.)

R
I
C 3. REQUEST TRACES ALSO ON CARRILLO'S GIRL FRIEND CYNTHIA
O CHLEBICKI, U.S. NATIONAL, UNAM MASTER'S DEGREE STUDENT, GRADUATE P
Y OF UNIV ILLINOIS, HOME ADDRESS 11 EAST 151 ST, HARVEY, ILL.. Y
(NO MEXI TRACES.)

4. INDEX.
SECRET

GROUP 1
FORM
4-43 1389 OBSOLETE
PREVIOUS
RI COPY
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN-
GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION.
RI COPY
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.
(35)
