104-10228-10045
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DATE: 10 OCT 62
TO: DIRECTOR
FROM: KINGSTON
ACTION: TFW 10
INFO: DDP, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, SAO, FI, FI/INT 2, WH 7, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE: SECRET

ROUTING: [BLANK]

IN 37423

DIR INFO WAVE CITE KNGS 0208
GYROSE AMBUD
REF A DIR 40852 (GA84508)
B KNGS 0202 (IN. 22688)

1. COS BELIEVES HIS REF B APPRAISAL JAMAICAN POLITICAL CLIMATE RE ESTABLISHMENT AMBUD DELEGATION HERE CORRECT. JAMAICAN GOVT WANTS NOT BE OVERTLY INVOLVED IN COLD WAR AND OUT OF CONCERN FOR SAFETY LARGE JAMAICAN COMMUNITY CUBA WILL MAKE STRENUOUS EFFORT TO STAY OUT. HOWEVER THEY WILL HELP COVERTLY WHEREVER POSSIBLE. ANY ATTEMPT INVOLVE JAMAICAN GOVT AGAINST ITS WILL AT THIS TIME WOULD RESULT IN NET LOSS OF COOPERATION NOW AND IN FUTURE. STATION REGARDS INCREASING COOPERATION OF RUABBE SERVICE IN CUBAN OBJECTIVES OF CONSIDERABLE VALUE.
2. IF HQS BELIEVES AMBUD REP SHOULD VISIT JAMAICA TO TEST POLITICAL CLIMATE IN GOVT, STATION WOULD CONCUR HOST RELUCTANTLY IN [ILLEGIBLE] WITH FRANK (DIAT) SILVEIRA DURING CARIBBEAN GAMES WHOM GOVT WANTED TO THROW OUT FOR HIS STATEMENTS TO PRESS ABOUT PROPOSED ESTABLISHMENT ANBUD REPRESENTATION HERE. IN ANY EVENT STATION WOULD INSIST NO PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENTS PRECEDE JAMAICAN GOVT RULING. SHOULD GOVT REJECT ANBUD FOLLOWING ADVANCE PUBLICITY THIS COULD BE MAJOR VICTORY FOR CUBAN CONSULATE, SHOT IN ARM TO FACING. "FRIENDS OF CUBA COMMITTEE".

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE: SECRET

IN 37423 KNGS 0208:

(COMPRISING LOCAL COMMUNISTS AND RAS TAFARIS), AND GIFT TO BUDDING NEW COMMUNIST FRONT "SOCIALIST PARTY OF JAMAICA".

3. SINCE STATION COULD NOT PLAUSIBLY DENY RESPONSIBILITY FOR AMBUD TO RUABBE AND GOVT OPPOSED TO USE OF JAMAICA FOR COUNTER REVOLUTIONARY PURPOSE AGAINST CUBA, COS BELIEVES IT ADVANTAGEOUS TO KUBARK AND ODYOKE FOR AMBUD STAY OUT OF JAMAICA UNTIL SENTIMENT CHANGES.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: SUBJ KINGS CONCURRENCE, SUGGESTED WAVE SEND AMEJO REP TO TEST LOCAL GOVT CLIMATE FOR PROPOSED DELEG AND REPORT RESPONSE AMBUD/1.