1104-10075-10373

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

24

SECRET

ROUTING

• DIRECTOR

UMWAVE

C/SAS: 5

LUP, ADDP, RI/AN DURMY, D/OC 2/VR

PET0229127

ITHWAVE 2395

OTIC ATHENA PETSOS COMMO

A. WAVE 7588 (IN 61661)

B. WAVE 7591 (IN 61630)

C. WAVE 7793 (IN 64066)

D. WAVE 7795 (IN 64001)

E. WAVE 7861 (IN 64951)

F. WAVE 7964 (IN 65904)

G. WAVE 8116 (IN 67280)

H. WAVE 8117 (IN 67249)

I. WAVE 8119 (IN 67291)

J. WAVE 8134 (IN 63356)

K. WAVE 8140 (IN 67664)

L. WAVE 8262 (IN 69684)

1. FOLL IS TRANSLATION OF REFS:

70-871784

70. RECEIVED MESSAGE 34. RUBEN RECOMMENDS JOSE 11511
GONZALEZ CANTO BECAUSE HE WAS A SERGEANT IN THE OLD ARMY AND KNOWS HOW
TO HANDLE DIFFERENT WEAPONS AND SOME EXPLOSIVES. RAMON AND MARIO ARE

TOL IS WHAT PICTURES OF MARIO YOU WANT. THE ONE THAT
DONEADIOS RECOMMENDS FOR INTELLIGENCE IS CRESTE TAMAYO MUNOS.

SECRET

14-00000

ASSIFIED MESSAGE

FAGO

PROFESSOR AT THE SCHOOL OF COMMERCE. I WILL CONTACT RENE THROUGH
ANG, DOIMEADIOS SAYS THAT CAMAY RECOMENDS FOR INTELLIGENCE.
DES.

71. CONTINUAT I ON. MEDARDO SILVA MARRERO, PORN IN HOL GUIN.
OCTOBER 12. LIVES LOS NOSCONES NEIHBORHOOD.
SON
MAND ALTA CRACIAL WORKS IN THE ASALT PLANT LOCATED IN THE
THE HOLGUIN MILITIA AIRPORT.

72. RECEIVED MESSACE 35. WILL SEND 310 DATA ON RENE SEFORE
CONTACT WITH HIM. ROBERTO ZAYAS WILL WORK IN THE ACTION CELL.
DAS THE LOCATION OF THE HOUSE NEAREST THE FOINT, IT IS MORE THAN
THREE KILOMETERS AWAY. THE POINT CAN BE REACHED BY A SECONDARY
THERE ARE NO PATROLS NOR OBSERVATION POSTS NEAR, THE NEAREST ONDO
1125 10 KILOMETER S. TELL US WHEN YOU CAN HAVE A RE-SUPPLY OPERATION.
A FEM SABOTAGE OBJECTIVES, DATA SENT BY MA.

WILL CEND SOME DETAILS OF OBJECTIVES CHOSEN.
5.

)510(.
ON NEXT TRANGMISSION

73. BIOGRAPHIC DATA ON RENE CRUZ PAMON, BORN IN VITORIA
TURNS ON 23 MAY 1929. LIVES IN HAIAN SANTANG A
PRICE. IS A PAPER MAKER. SON OF ROBERTO AND MANUELA, MARRIED TO
VELAZQUEZ? HAS ONE DAUGHTER NAMED ANAUELA PPT ANOUSL
DOIMEADIOS TELLS ME THAT RUBEN RECOMMEND ROBERTO LECON PING Fקל
HE WAS BORN IN HOCHIN.
F.
74,
CONTINUES.
CONTINUE TON, BORN ON 22 APRIL 1932, LIVES אה
12. WORKS IN THE FLECTRIC PLANT OF KIN. RAPI invi
GE THESE PEOPLE IS NECESSAR Y.
15. AGUILAP NASECOMMENDED TO ME FOR ACTION AGENT IN PUERTO

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
IN 71784 PAGE ش
PADRE RAMON DANIEL VALDES LEON NAT IVE OF HAVANA. SORN 21 RPT 21 JUNE 195
RF 1915. SON OF HER IBERTO AND TERESA
MARRIED TO LINA PACHECO RONDON)
LIVES IN BATET, CHAPAPRA REPARTO MIRAKAR, PUERTO PADRE. WORKS AS MALE MURDE
THIS FAN CONTROLS LARGE NUMBER OF PEOPLE IN THE ZONE.
Ge
76.
C
BORN
RECEIVED MESSAGE 36. DOIMEADIOS TELLS ME THAT RUBEN
ENDS FOR ACTION ALFREDO DIAZ CON FONZALEZ BORN IN MANZANILLO.
ALLOWA
OCTOBER 1916. SON OF MANUEL AND TOMACA.
UIMEN WORKSHOPS OF THE OBRAS PUBLICAS (PUBLIC WORKS).
77.
HORUS AS CUTE OF THE
LIVES IN
ERAL FERIA, 193. CONT INUES.
H.
CONT INGAT ION. RUPEN ALSO RECOMMENDS LEONARDO PUPO
ROMERO PORN IN HOLGUIN.
SON OF FRANCISCO AND MARIA. BORN ON 23 AUGUST
1939. LIVES IN THE EXTENSION OF PERALTA 36, HARLEM SECTION. WORKS ON CARGO
0
SHIPS OF HIGHWAY TRANSPORTATION (SIC). I NEED PESOS, TELL US IF YOU CAN
HAKE ARAHER CACHE. WE ARE RECRUITING ACTION PERSONNEL IN HIDDEN PLACES.
SENT REPORTS ON TARGETS ON 17 NOVEMBER. CONTINUATION.
1. 79. CONT INUATION. TELL ME WHAT OTHER TYPE OF INFORMATION
YOU HEED ON THE TANK PARK I REPORTED.
I WILL ORDER AGUILAR TO INVEST-
IGATE WHO LIVES AT PUNTO TOMATE. THE EXPLOSIVE PATERIAL I WILL USE AS
SELECTED TARGETS. THE OTHER MATERIAL WILL BE BURIED. THE SUPPLIES VIL PE
CARRIED IN THE TRUCK OF MAPTO TORLARO THE SIROSIVES VERE DEPOSITED
(STC) IN THE FARM OF YULET.
COORDINATES 584292, MAP SHEET 4975 IV.

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
IN 71784 PAGE
TA MAP SHEET 4979 IV IS SURROUNDED BY BAR BED WIRE FENCE. ONLY
GUARD ARMED WITH A SOVIET PPSH WEAPON. IT IS IN A SENTRY BOX WITH
PRONE LOCATED IN FRONT OF THE AGUAS CLARAS AND UNAS HIGHWAYS JUNCI ION
PE ARE SEVERAL ANTI-AIRCRAFT INSTALLED ON A HILL AT NORTH, NOT BEING AI
POMING WHAT TYPE. THE AREA OF ALL THE CAMP IS APPROXIMATELY
ARO KILOMETER, THE AREA OCCUPIED BY THE TANKS IS ABOUT 1900 METERS.
TANKS SEEM TO BE T-545.
اة
K. 782. RECEIVED MESSAGE 36. DOIMEADIOS TELLS ME THAT CAMAY
COMPENDS FOR THE INTELLIGENCE CELL JURANIN ROOERTO MAUPINO
RAIN MATANZAS, SON OF ROBERTO AND TERESA.
TOANDY.
BORN ON 16 SEPT 1918.
TO INES FER IA. HAS TWO CHILDREN, ROBERTO AND INES. THIS MAN VAS
HE WAS THEN PERWATE
CHEF OF THE RURAL CORPS DURING THE PRIO GOVERNMENT.
GOVEST IGATOR FOR SEARS AND OF HER COMMERCIAL AND BANKING FIRNS.
ESTIGATION ONE THESE PEOPLE IS NECESSARY.
PASID
L. S. RECEIVED MESSAGE 37. CONTACT IN VICTORIA WOULD 52 REN
A
CARAMO. RENE HAS BEEN KNOWN TO ME FOR SOME YEARS THROUCH
COF FELIPE CRUE COLON, DELICIA FARA. ALSO RENE WAS SO
MARTIN COMPANY IN PUERTO PADRE. IN VICTORIA RENE WORKS WITH OP.
LAVYER IN VICTORIA. TRYING TO INVESTIGATE SCHOOLS ATTENDED.
CU CAN PROVIDE SOVE HONEY EXPENSES ARE VERY HICK HERE.
2. STATION COMMENT: PLS INDEX FOR VAVE FILES UITH LECE
INFORMATION PECEIVED FROM GOC CONTROLLED AGENT, VALDY OF
LATION CANNOT BE DETERMINED.".
CRET
