140000
104-10071-10122
VLA
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
TO
Chief, FORA
FROM
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
DISPATCH HO. (HEDA-186
22
3P
CLASSERTION
12-22
DATE
14 May 1955
Senior Representative, (New Delh
GENERAL
SUBIECT
SPECIFIC
Operational/ INTEL
(PATLIPPER
-
Transmittai of Reporte
1. Frenamittod herovith are copies of THER LAULT reperts and notes
as listed below. Not included are carbon copies of the initial report
(plans undated) and the report covering the period 28 December
as the third copy was not cado.
-
14 January
2. TEERLAUP requested that, if possible, a set of his report be
made available to him on his return to facilitate preparation of a master
report on overall findings and impressions.
Enclosures Under separate cover
(Pouched 7 May 1955)
14 Jan
23 Jan
25 Jan
- 30 Jan
30 Jan -
8 Feb
-9 Bob -
1750b
18 Fob (1 pp)
20 Feb
Har
Thoans . LUND
く
-7 Har
18 Mar -
16 Mar
18 Mar
30 Маг
12 Apr
Hotobook
Interview with U.S. HABAR,
oz
Toject (PA) FLIPPER
Retired from Project (E
REVE NE
C...
Filos
DA:
Fold: #3
5
HED GERU
Distribution:
Ori & 4 -He
9 May 55
2
Sert
PATIOR
Foas co
51-28A
8915
AVENTURE CARD REPRODKAIRO,

14-00000
3
SECRET
May 1955
02
Creltrinary Cebriefing
T...: 13 May 1955, 2030-2100.
1. Frior to my departure for New York to handle the preliminary
debriefing of THERIA LI, I discussed the following subjects with CNEA-5:
1) In view of the fact that THERIAULT's expenses on her recent
rip to India have been greater than was anticipated, 1,000
alditional funds have or are to be shortly deposited to her bank.
This will be done by sterile check. It is to be accounted for
under the terms of the original contract.
2) CIFA-5 suggested that take her reports up with me for
possible annotation and expansion. Upon examination on 14 May,
this apears unfeasible in view of the fact that there are CIA
comro indicators and RI symbols attached directly to the reports.
3) CNEA-5 surested that pursue with THEKTAULT the
possibility of developing an interest in Krishna Menon, utilizing
a cleared publisher who could request Menon to write a book. This
a proach to be based on Menon's acute susceptability to flattery.
4) CNEA-5 suggested that THE LAULT be asked to review the
areas of her influence in order to lay the groundwork for an
official invitation to visit this country being extended to the
Crime Minister in the future. He suggested Sen. George and
Chester Bowles as possible points of departure.
5) THERIAULT is to be informed that her reports have been
of it measurable assistance to the Ambassador and to the U.S.
Government vis-a-vis policy planning for India.
6) THERIAULT is to be asked to come to Washington for a day
or se in the very near future for further debriefing. This is
to be arranged at her convenience.
7) In view of the fact that THERIAULT has been unwitting
of the Agency's role in sponsoring her trip, I suggested that I
now make ner witting in terms of the security involved.
It
seemed advisable to me since it is likely that there will be
future contacts with TORIAULT. ONEA-5 agreed to this.
8) THER LAULT is to be advised that she is at liberty to
discuss any and all aspects of her trip with anybody with the
e: ception of the Agency's role in sponsoring it.
نه
Removed from Project PAFLIPPER
CS Classification: NONG
SECRET JOB 66-668/59
Box:
5
Foldy チン
APERTURE CARD REPRODUSTIONS
i

14-00000
SECRET
-2
2) In view of the vast amount of work that must be done,
suggested that plan to spend two days 16 and 17 May -
If it becomes neces.ary. On previous trips to discuss
ESIAULT's mission with her, I found that she frequently
"ad other commitments which made it difficult to cover
adequately the material which I had amassed. If this is the
case on this trip, I should prefer not to press her. One
day's latitude seems the better part of wisdom. CNLA-5
agreed. We shall see, however.
100 In the event that it becomes necessary to reach me,
surgest that my wife be asked to get in touch with me,
08(Jackson 7-7018)) and that I be asked simply to call my
office. I will then call on the sterile phone. For the
record, my telephone number in New York is CELHAM 82530708
SECRET
Fertram Cooper
03
Chisti UDE CARD REPRODUSTIONS

02
Poonvad frca Froject PAFLIPPER
45.ficationANONG
Pol
JUL 066-668/59
Bort
14-00000.
7.
22
2.
2.
3.
40
Joneral Commente.
HP dupliista
I have no: Calked with any Ford Foundation people and many
To people. A pressed by their quality. They are workin
herd and are doing it in a self-effacing mannr. I have not heard
one criticien of ta from anybody. There are a few inde, of cour
I have not yet net tha. They are here to help India caray cat
her projcets and her ideas" na one put it. And they seem to b
not only democraticmily but with a very real wareth and
sympathy yet they stay quietly in the background and take nons
of the credit. But I fool more trongly each week I am here
that the work is solid and is having memendously good affost in
relieving tension and hostility between the two countrie. The
resuite of the notual work are apparent now and hope has recently
increased among Indiana, also their self-confidence. When
confidence increntes, sensitiveness decrerses, of course.
Froa ail I have picked up, the feeling de widesprend that
Ambreendor Allen did a good job out here. As one put 18, the
Wan exactly right for the period he was here, just as Roules
was right for the speciel maxim problems of his two years."
Both Indian and Americans highly raise both nem.
We have a prize in Evelyn Hersey and somebody should thank 104
every night that she is here. She and Drend urine are
the wetloved Americans in north India, certainly.
Evelyn Hersey i known throughout India. She was Social welforo
nttrahe at the breay beginning I think in 1943. The only cao
attached to any enbessy anywhere, I understand. Her work w
to interpret the social changes taking place in India, to besca
ware of the needs and probiens and how these needs nad probis
were being net, und to offer her services and her experiense
whenever or wherever it was asked for. When the administratica
changed, she was die nieced by Republican on the grounds that this
uns a new idea, nobody else had ever done such a thing, that 13
no other foreign service and so why should the U.S. AL HF.
Ailents urgent insistense, she was sent back, this time MF
the moglo of TCM- She is, however, doing the samo job. ER
infilenge is very wide; she is aduired and loved by literally
thousands of Indians from the high echolons down to the owe era
and ther horijans. She is called on for advice in
fields and by very high officials. Sho works behind the scmm
and fools thet her work would be ruined were she given credit
for what she hos actually done. she is vivid and full of lif
and one would hardly all her self effacing, and yet her work
ds done almost Anonymously. I have been around her enough to see
how wido her circle of Indian friends is; and how comatently constantly
and contimmoiy they stream through her house. sho go all ove
Indie. Has travelled much more than 100 thougand miles. She say
in reocat months she ho: felt absolutely no antagonica toward her
26 an American. She is shrewd, hes sherp eyce and care, i
knowlatlo politically is nobody's food, is strongly ant
communist, is waraherted and intellectually a exible. One of
the best sinds I have run into since coning ow.
I wish we had five times the peo-le in TOM. They carefully
void politics. I think it is vise.
And they o.. Young
i
உ
15BDA-180)
5
CASE WAS BALD ADEPRODUCTIONS

4-00000
8.
:
5.
6.
Genera. Jomments. (continued.)
AH (NODES 1865
22
A very good project has recently bee: Launched. It is
criled The Delhi fraining and Orientation contro for
Foreign Technici: ne in India. This is the second time it
hne been held, held, I think. It begins today, Jan. 24. Contimes
for two weeks. (The first one worked out a fine short
bibliography on India, and a little brochure on "Foods
available in North India.) This second course covers
the Indian village, with visits out to villages, Indian
art, prchitecture, chitecture, dance; Indian history, religion, Islam
in India, other religions and philosophies; Indian family
life and customs, health problems and resuroca, educational
problems, urben problems, Fural unemployment and aid, tho
role of foreign sid in India, discussion of the Five year
Plan.
It is the kind of briefing that every foreigner coming to
Indid, shound have. It is open to all of then we were
invited simply es queste and shali attend many of the meetings.
Pilas are shown; trips to art galleries and museums eto.
Miss Hersey has had much to do with this; also Dr. Douglas
Esninger. And probably others, too. Indians will do most
of the briefing.
2
I shall write later about the Five Year Plan. Am still
studying it. Shall have a number of interviowa with the
plannere, or with a few of then. shall also go out on several
of the projects. This secns important to ne for social
changes, and how they are made broci politics. The political
picture oan cert-inly not be understood if the cultural and
social pictures are not studied and analysed carefully.
We are enclosing e fea excerpte of specahes made by
Mr. Nehru, ur. Menon, and Ir. Uhuber this poet wook at the
Congress Party big gathering.
♡
1
4

14-00000
Odds and Ends of Information,
(050)
AHINODA 1865
22
1. Hy Piol told me that the Communists are organising the
domestic corkers of New Delhi. Lest weck there was a
conting of oyala at India Onte called together for this
The week bef ro the bearers (cr the sweepere)
were called together. The Comunists are going about it in
chrond way making very reasonable demande, such as a half
day off ech week, a rise of perhaps 4 or & rupees a sonth
in wages. A Communist in every home will really be something
9
He'ye there is little eativity of Congress party of Socialist
party among Istor groupe. The work is being done by
Coafurists. They, somehow, have the money to do thes
organisational work while there is little money anong regular
corkers due to weakness of industry, anall member and low Fag
of the workere, He is troubled over lack of activity
among the desperrtic groups in inbor circles. Saya he has been
here only 3 months and ennnot da yet see the picture clearly.
2.
The State Dept.'s coldness about permitting fides to visit
the Firmen in China give the U. S. a very bad press out here.
It was very clover strategy on the part of China; it une bed
strategy on our part to appear callous to the feelings of
families. Family affection runs deep out here. It is another
one of our many small blunders which conchow loom co large
when viewed by the hundreds of millions out here., 18, comehow,
overybody could count up to ten before speaking, and thick co
how China is going to take it but how the entire area of anda
will repot. Those frailles could have been told quietly en
personelly that if they wanted to go they would not be protestad
by an American passport, they could even have been secretly
urged not to gop
8.
of but the blatant press rolesce.
Forgive ay
cditorialising, I am sure I am not supposed to do it, it cao 1
very close here to the mind and heart of Asia and cannot halg
Doing sware of these reactions of the peuple. Anyone who loves
the U. S. oonnot help but wish that our spokesan would speak
core toftly and more thotfully. A braggart or tally to delikad
17 all human beings. To have strength is fine, to trendich that
etrength offenis.
The Times of India (Jan, 26) has excellent editorial on the E
cocialistic society goal as outlined by Nehru and Congress Party
leaders. "Does Avadi maris a revolutionary shift in Congress poliσμ
All that it meant was en acknowlcigaent of the Imaveasingl
....
important role of the public sector in the national cena
role that was already defined with greater precision in the
industrial policy resolution. There was nothing to indicato cha
there would be aky new oneroachment on the sphere reserved to
private enterprise, and the fears expressed outside the Ceapas
on that score were, therefore, unjustifica. Feithe tes thera
any justification ation for the apprehension don that the new chicativa
meant a radical departure from the Server 14cal.
mattered really was not the label that as given the
tat the extent to which in actual practice it would help in
the production of greater wealth and in its pre emitable
distritation... What was significant
•
...
was that it shoul
7
AFLIKTURE CARD REPRODUCTIONS
1
-

14-00000
a
odde and ends of inforant on (cont.)
AHNGOA 1865
22
have been compelled at this stage to cock a more popular labai
for ita Poonsaic and social policies..
;
If this commitncut in to
be more than a design to steal the opponentes cicatoral thunder, the
Congress Governments at the Centre and in he states have
Sanedistely to set about the task of translating the new prinsiples
Anto policica.
The only way to make the policy of Congreat
Governments accord with Congress principles is self criticien and
yet there I were responsible Congressmen at Avadi who saw
danger even in the condemnation of malpractices by Congressan,
..
0
8
The road to full employment -- for which the Congres Rea
•
for the first ting laid down a time-limit
is by no means casy.
It demands a complete renovation of Life in the countryside on the one
hand and apecdy industrialisation making the country as salf-
sufficient ne possible on the other.
Digest of
(etc.)
chankhis speech on Jan, 24th.
He spoke of the unsuitability of totalitarianion in the decoratio
Republic of India and the indoquncy of ca italien, stating that
there was left only e Socialistic approach open to the country.
He states that the acceptance of the Socialistic society na 140sl
meant the nationalisation of institutions that could be immediately
nationalised with advantage. The presution in so doi, bald
Ur. Geshmakh, was that socialised production would be c
profitable. Ho, however, cautioned that if experience balied that
view, the stop might have to be retracca.
De stated that a Socialistic ideal which received the support
of the people could achieve the two objectives of incressing
national income and enhancing individual divided.
He otated that Indie had established economic stability though
at a rather low lovel of prosperity during the first Plan period.
He said the credit for the achieve ochipvcacat vent ant Harely to ccozonis
Caracaent and planning but inside other facia Pada among the
acciotence from friendly nations. The United States, he said,
had contributed the largest share of foreign (11.
40051218.
02
Projoo PAFLIPPER
Removed from Projoo
CS Classification NONE
JOB 066-668714
Folch 3
Bоxи
5
Miss Sandi andur. Hoden (private scercetary of ura. Gandhi'e
and reception claris at Prime Minister's House) over a cay
cup of tea in their quarters told the following story,
While in China, at first big banquet given then, ir. Jerm and
his daughter (and others) were served tiny baby live niso
Aapped in honey. Ure. Gandhi (his daughter) was so chockci
that cho chodcead at the sight and turned away. Eene of thea
could eat the delicacy. It was not ever carved again to tha
while they were in China.
AANDE TARD DERIODUCTIONS
ALLENDE
