2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL
USE ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM: C/WH/SEC GH-56

EXTENSION NO. 6300 109301

DATE 5 May 1966

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

|   | DATE RECEIVED | FORWARDED | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.) |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| 1. Chief, PSD 3E-48 |12may 66   |  |  | For inclusion in Subject's security file. |
| 2. |  |  |  |  |
| 3. |  |  |  |  |
| 4. |  |  |  |  |
| 5. |  | RECORDED CONTROL DES |  | ⑤ Record reviewpetion |
| 6. |  |  |  |  |
| 7. |  |  |  |  |
| 8. |  |  |  |  |
| 9. |  |  |  |  |
| 10. |  |  |  |  |
| 11. |  |  |  |  |
| 12. |  |  |  |  |
| 13. |  |  |  |  |
| 14. |  |  |  |  |
| 15. |  |  |  |  |

FORM 610
USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL
USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION S-E-C-R-E-T

PRO-
POSED

PROCESSING

ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED
HEADQUARTERS DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

ABSTRACT
MICROFILM

ACCOM.
PLISHED

TO Chief, WH

INFO Chief, KUVEST

FROM Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT DYVOUR/ADMIN/PERSONNEL James B. Wilcott Jr. Debriefing of  - Resignation in field

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES

Action Required: FYI
Wilcott

1. arrived PCS at JMWAVE on 26 April 1965 and submitted his resignation at JMWAVE from KUBARK to be effective cob 15 April 1966. While at JMWAVE Subject was under the cover of JMOCEAN.

2. resigned in order to seek employment in private industry. A resume of his KUBARK employment is as follows:

a. Mar 57 (EOD) to May 60.- in. Hqs - overt employee

b. May, 60 to July 64 - Tokyo, Japan under under ODIBEX cover

c. Aug 64 - leave 13-3

d. Sept 64 to Apr 65 - in Hqs - ODIBEX cover

e. 26 Apr 65 to 15 Apr 66 - JMOCEAN

3. Subject was instructed in the event he ever seeks employ- ment with ODYOKE he should contact the Station for guidance as to what he will show as his former ODYOKE employment.

4. Under separate cover there is being forwarded to Head- quarters a copy of the resume that is submitting in seeking employment with private industry. This resume was written by of JMWAVE. and it was concurred in by Chief/Finance and Chief/Cover

Attachment: 1 (Resume) Under Separate Cover

Philip G. ELMARD

Distribution:
3 - WH w/att u/s/c
2 - KUVEST w/att u/s/c

GACUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification
I CROSS REFERENCE TO

CLASSIFICATION S-E-C-R-E-T

DATE TYPED
20 A pr 66

DATE DISPATCHED
APR25 1966

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
16012
UFGT-و

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

HISTORY OF EMPLOYMENT

SUBSEQUENT TO GRADUATION FROM CENTRAL CITY BUSINESS INSTITUTE

32
March 1957 to May 1960 U.S. Army Element, Composite Operations Group Room 18945) The Pentagon, Washington, D.C. Salary: $6,000.

Review vouchers and determine cost center and object class.

Maintain special payrolls and related accounts and resolve problems relating to leave, retirement, taxes, etc. and correlatc payroll function with other departments.

Assist in the installation of and supervision of posting machine operation to maintain allotment ledger. Maintain Miscel- laneous Obligation Record and supervise posting clerks. Monthly, quarterly, semi-annual and annual Summary of Allotment Accounts preparation and other related statements. Maintain Expenditure Distribution Ledger and balance with IBM run.

Police certain Appropriation, Fund and Limitation Accounts.

Assist in the preparation of budgets, summaries and reports.

32
May 1960 to July 1964 U.S. Army Element, Composite Operations Group) assigned to Composite Analysis Group,)32 to (Tokyo, Japan) Salary: $6,500.

Maintain and pay special payroll and prepare reports, surveys and summaries.

Control and responsibility for funds in the high six figures. Monthly disbursements in the high six figures to revolving funds, Supervision and audit of revolving funds and accounting vouchers, Monthly, quarterly, semi-annual and annual statements, summaries and reports of revolving funds.

Control and responsibility for transfers of funds and foreign currency and maintenance of conversion accounts.

Supervise and perform financial negotiations with (Japanese) Dusinessmen.

(Continued)

-2-

32
September 1964 to April 1965 U.S. Army Element, Composite Operations Group Room 16945
The Pentagon, Washington, D.C. Salary: $6,890

Perform audit of several special payrolls. Assist in the pilot study and installation of a new payroll system.

Assist various branches in problems relating to the conversion to computer bookkeeping.

Assist in the balancing of the General Ledger accounts in connection with the year-end closing of the books.

May 1965 to Present The Melmar Corporation

Miami, Florida Payroll Officer Salary: $8,000.

Reorganize the payroll office and assume responsibility for the schedule and accuracy of payrolls. Instruer, direct and assist clerks in compiling, computing and preparation of payrolls. Prepare checks for distribution. Investigate and settle disputes regarding alleged errors in pay checks. Audit payroll summaries, bank balances and labor distribution records, etc. Prepare quarterly and annual ta:: report forms, wage reports and surveys. Correlate payroll function with other departments
