14-00000
8/PV

11-5-5.53175RGA EGNA DE FOLLO

SECRET
DISPATCH

SUBJECT: REDCAP LUIMPROVE AELADLE
AELAULE LEAD
CHIEF OF BASE, BUNN
FROM:
CUS:G, SR, F08
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

PROCESSING

MICROFILMED
JUN 4 1963
DOC. MICRO. SER.

1. DURING A MEETING WITH WEYDE UN 21 MAY 6; HE REFERRED
HE STATED THAT CA
TO HIS VISIT TO WASHINGTON TO DEBRIEF AELADLE
ONE OCCASION, WHILE HE AND DR. NE TER WERE RIDING IN A CAR WITH AELALE
AELADLE CASUALLY REFERRED BY NANE TO A KGB CFFICER PRESENTLY ASSIGNO
IN GERMANY, COMMENTING THAT HE KNEW THE INDIVIDUAL VERY WELL AND
KNEW THAT HIS POLITICAL VIEWS WERE THE SANE AS HIS OWN, BUT THAT
WESTERN INTELLIGENCE SHOULD LEAVE THE INDIVIDUAL ALONE AS HE WOULD
PROBABLY ONE DAY MAKE THE SAME DECISION AS AELADLE ON HIS OWN.

2. BY THE TIME WEYDE REALIZED THE SIGNIFICANCE OF WHAT
AELADLE WAS SAYING THE NAME HAD SLIPPED BY AND NEITHER HE NOR
6DR. MEIER WAS ABLE, OR FELT HE COULD, ASK FOR THE NAME AGAIN. AFTE
LEAVING AELADLE BOTH (WEYDE AND NEIER TRIED TO RECALL THE NAME OF THE
INDIVIDUAL SUT COULD ONLY AGREE THAT THE NAME BEGAN WITH AN A
IN REVIEWING THE PRESENT SOVIETS ASSIGNED IN THE GFR WHOSE NAMES
BEGING WITH "A WEYDE TENDS TO THINK THE NAME MENTIONED MIGHT HAVE
BEEN AKHLUYEV (201-294340), ALTHOUGH HE IS FAR FROM CERTAIN ON THIS
POINT.

3. WE HAVE VERY LIMITED INFORMATION IN OUR FILES ON AKHLOYB
AND NUNE INDICATING KGB AFFILIATION. HE ARRIVED AT THE STM ON
16 FEBRUARY 61 ALONG WITH HIS WIFE, IS CARRIED BY THE BFVJAS AN
CAPLOYEE OF THE TRADE MISSION, AND RESIDES WITHIN THE TRADE MISSION
BUILDING.

4. THE ABOVE LEAD, ALTHOUGH VERY SKETCHY, APFEARS DEFINITE
WORTH PURSUING AND WE WONDER IF IT WOULD BE POSSIBLE TO QUERY AELADDE
SOME MANNER.06 WEYDE HAD THE IMPRESSION THAT AELADLE DESIRED TO PROTECT
THE INDIVIDUAL FROM ANY INTELLIGENCE APPROACHES BASED ON HIS INFORMATI
SO HE HAS PROBABLY NOT SUBMITTED ANY DETAILS. IT MAY, HOWEVER, PROE
PROFITABLE TO REVIEW WITH AELADLE AGAIN SOME OF THE SOVIETS ASSIGNED IN
WEST GERMANY AND WORK IN ALL THE "A" NAMES. AELADLE NIGHT THUS GIVE
SOME INFORMATION WHICH WOULD HELP US TO ESTABLISH THE IDENTITY OF THE
INDIVIDUAL HE MENTIONED IN THE CAR. PLS ADVISE IF THIS IS POSSIBLE

LESTER S. REDNILES

INDEX
DISTRIBUTION
3 EE
1 SR
2 CCS/G
2 FCB
BY POUCH
33 17
CS COPY
24 MAY 63 TOR-
DATE TYPED
DATE DESPATCHED

EGNA-25631
201-97733
HEADQUARTERS FILE MULAREЯ

CLASSIFICATION:
SECRET
