104-10226-10087
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TRANSMITTAL
OF
TDCS INFORMATION REPORT

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
(When Filled in)

UNIT
Jane S. Ingle::jg
TFW/Intel/Reports
Ext.
5547
DATE
27 August 1962

ROUTING
Aug 28 13 44Z62

TDCS -3/520,846 SLCT.

CONFIRMATION COPIES
TFW 12

INFORMATION COPIES
CI/OPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/D, FI/INT 5, IW 2, CA 2, CA/PRG, OS, WH 6,
WE 4,

DATE DISTRIBUTED
27 August 1962

DISSEMINATION
TFW/Int 2 TFW/PROP-PA 1 WH/R 1
TFW/FI 2 TFW/SI 1 WE/3 3
TFW/CI 2 TFW/WAVE 1 WE/R 1
TFW/PM 1 WH/PACY 2 OS/SSD/Bauman 1

EVALUATION
REQUESTED STATE ARMY NAVY AIR

PRECEDENCE
ROUTINE

BASED ON (IM. Rpt. Prof.)
WAVE-7632 (IN-11670)
WAVE-7114 (IN-46173)
UFG-1396
UNION (UNION-11)
Liaison: G

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

DD/P INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
(When Filled in)

COORDINATING OFFICER(S)
W.S. Compton
WE/3/RE (in draft)

RELEASING OFFICER
TFW/Intel

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
The material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Esplanage Laws, Title 18 U.S.C. Secs.
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
S-E-C-R-E-T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
COUNTRY
CUBA
REPORT NO. TDCS-3/520,846.
SUBJECT
PLANNED UPRISING BY OPPOSITION
GROUPS IN CUBA
DATE DISTR
27 AUGUST 1962

DATE OF
INFO.
PLACE &
DATE ACO.
APPRAISAL
SOURCE
AUGUST 1962
FRANCE, PARIS (25 AUGUST 1962)

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
REFERENCES
RD-ACQ-01258
RD-W-2107
FIELD REPORT NO.
IN -46173
-11670

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE
AN OFFICIAL FRENCH SERVICE.

STATE
1. MEMBERS OF THE UNIDAD REVOLUCIONARIA (UR) REPORTED TO THE
FRENCH EMBASSY IN HABANA THAT ON 10 AUGUST THEY WERE INVITED TO ATTEND
A MEETING ON 14 AUGUST ORGANIZED BY THE DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO
ESTUDIANTIL (DRE) AND THE MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO
(MRP), THE PURPOSE OF THE MEETING WAS FOR THE THREE GROUPS TO PLAN A
STAGE OF ACTIVE WARFARE. THE UR WAS ADVISED BY THE FRENCH EMBASSY
NOT TO PARTICIPATE, BUT THE UR COULD NOT CONVINCE THE DRE AND THE
MRP TO REVERSE THEIR DECISION FOR AN UPRISING SCHEDULED FOR THE LAST
DAYS OF AUGUST, WHICH WOULD RESULT IN A GENERAL UPRISING OF ALL
INTERNAL RESISTANCE GROUPS.

2. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINCARIB

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SE-C-R-E-T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
STATE ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR OD DIA INS
REPCINCLANT
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
S-E-C-R-E-T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
TDCS -3/520,846
11670
47173
PAGE
2

3. HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: AMERICAN EMBASSY, PARIS, TELEGRAM
NO. 984, DATED 26 AUGUST 1962, REPORTED INFORMATION FROM THE FRENCH
AMBASSADOR IN HABANA ON THIS AGREEMENT FOR A GENERAL UPRISING
DURING THE LAST DAYS OF AUGUST.
END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
S-E-C-R-E-T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
