14-00000
104-10111-10079
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
43872
DAVID CHRIST
14 August 1961

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

The day after her husband's arrest, 16 September 1960, Mrs. Christ
said her husband suffered a "nervous" collapse, to be alleviated by an American
physician. Mrs. Christ was asked not to discuss her husband's case with that
physician.

Mrs. Christ said very little knowledge of the functions or activities
performed by her husband, and very little of his experience in the audio
surveillance fields. Moreover, conversations, security and audio
surveillance were relatively new to her.

Mrs. Christ was advised that her husband was Chief of the Audio
Operations Branch, and that this branch carried out requests within the
organization for the surreptitious installation of microphones and other
listening devices. She was given a breakdown of this branch, including
all personnel assignments and particular assignments undertaken on a world wide
basis. Mrs. Christ was established as knowing that her husband's assignment
in Havana was clandestine and dangerous. She knows that the technicians
subsequently to prison were "technicians", not U.S. citizens. Mrs. Christ
was reminded that subsequent to the Bay of Pigs Agency fiasco, Mrs. Christ
was told that her husband, two other employees of the organization, a
State Department employee and an agent were apprehended by the Cuban Castro
Government and told that the State Department employee, Robert D. Asmus (phonetic)
(believed by Cuban counterintelligence was actually the Russian officer under
State Department cover). Although the name of the agent (Fordson) was
not mentioned at this time, Mrs. Christ read about him in various news
paper accounts at the time of the trial. Mrs. Christ was also told
that the operational indulgence that her husband represents, if disclosed
to the Cubans, would not only cause considerable damage to the United
States Government, but would also entail extensive and probably brutal
interrogation of her husband by the Cubans and probably the Russians as
well. She was not advised of other operations involving her husband.

Mrs. Christ was shown as much information as possible about Mr. Christ's
career history. He was employed by a "cover" organization, "Vachats Associates",
located in New York City and had been provided with alien documentation,
such as a driver's license and a Social Security number. Christ under-
stood the reasons for this "cover" since it was easier for her husband to
pass as a bachelor than to absorb the appearance of a family. At no time
were the movements or activities of his Washington to London travel, prior to
their arrest, been discussed with Mrs. Christ. Mrs. Christ was informed.

that in the event of danger the technicians planned to escape to an
apartment which was occupied by an unwitting State Department secretary.

Since the initial interview, Mrs. Christ has gradually picked up
additional information, mostly from newspaper articles, about the opera-
tion and subsequent trial. It is believed that Mrs. Christ has not
obtained any clandestine information about the operation other than that
told to her by Agency in this interview. At the present time, she does
not seem too interested in the operational aspects of the case, nor the
motives for her husband's actions. At the time of the trial, what little
"highly parental" and "highly technical" information was previously
discussed with
her, she was reminded of the fact that (Fordson) possessed a double identity. Rather,
that she has been instructed not to seek any "breakdowns" about his actions per his
present whereabouts.

Mrs. Christ was informed that Mr. Kessler, who was the Department of
State Welfare Officer in Havana at the time of the technicians arrest,
had contacted the prisoners shortly after their arrest. She was told
that Mr. Kessler was advising the technicians from morality and was
able to verbally transmit their statements, since their bail.
Mrs. Christ spent some moneys through Kessler to her husband, prior to
the severance of diplomatic relations. She was also aware of Kessler's
activities in behalf of the technicians and knows that he expended monies
with obtaining money, cigarettes, clothing, candy and other items as requested.
She was told that Kessler hired Dr. Colomer, a Cuban National, to serve
as the technicians attorney. In May 1961, Kessler visited Washington, D.C.
to consult with Agency officers on the conditions in the prisons
of other Government employees.

Mrs. Christ also knows that Dr. Colomer left Havana with his wife
in June 1961 and had has been brought to Washington, D.C. was associated
with Government personnel. She has been told that another Cuban attorney
was hired by Dr. Colomer to represent the technicians and handle the case
when the appeal is heard. It is not indicated that Mrs. Christ should
know about the Washington attorney, Mr. Gusky, but she appears to be
acquainted with the name.

Mrs. Christ has learned from newspaper articles that there are
about 20 American prisoners of Wa Ta's of Flores and that conditions
at the prisons are extremely poor. She also knows that food is brought
to the technicians by a Cuban prisoner who occupies a cell with the
technicians. She can recall that Dr. Colomer saw the technicians a
few days prior to his departure that they were in good spirits and
that Mr. Kessler constantly worked in the prison.

In defense knowledge of specific operations undertaken by the
organization to obtain her husband's release, Mrs. Christ has heard of

only one direct approach. She was told that the Cuban attorney
offered to exchange medical supplies for the release of the three
technicians and that the offer has never acted upon by the Cubans.
She also knows that we have tried several other successful operations,
but she is unaware of any details of these attempts. Mrs. Christ knows
that rumors of the operation new in progress, which contemplates utilizing
personnel in Honduras. On several occasions when the organization secretly
considered a given operation, and for instance, for an action in
Honduras. For example, when Castro prepares "conconging tractors for prisoners,
Mrs. Christ can usually question him as to what action we may take to
include the technicians in any exchange. She also had numerous ideas as
to how this should be carried out. Yet, she would only be told that the
negotiations were being clearly monitored and that there would be no
interference in behalf of her husband, unless the political climate was
favorable.

As the Agency-American political atmosphere changes and specific
acts occur, such as the hi-jacking of J. A. airplanes, Mrs. Christ may
ask ideas or approaches regarding the method we might use to affect any
release of her husband. Of course, about the same time, we are usually
considering a change of facility.

Mrs. Christ has been verbally advised of the contents of the commages
we have exchanged with the technicians and knows that these have been few.
She knows that over 1000 pesos were left by Dr. Colomer
with the Cubans and that this amount is being supplemented through Dara.
She also knows that we recently requested the Cuban lawyer to forward requested
tax package and requested the period which to send to the techni-
cians were not received by the fail, and therefore no further package
will be sent.

The operational details which have been discussed with Gen. Taylor,
but not with Mrs. Christ are of such a nature that little damage would
be done if they were inadvertently revealed to Mrs. Christ. The main
points which should not be discussed with her are:

1. The name of the Washington attorney handling the case.

2. Details of present or future operations designed to
effect the release of the men.
