104-10104-10172

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WH

INFO.

FROM: Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT: TYPIC
Contact Report - IDEN *A

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES
ACTION REQ: See Para 4

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

PROCESSING

PRO- ACTION ACCOM-
POSED PLISHED

[X] MARKED FOR INDEXING attachment
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED
HEADQUARTERS DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
ABSTRACT
MICROFILM

1. IDEN A, a wealthy and prominent New Orleans businessman,
was recommended to JMWAVE and made available by Headquarters. He
had been cleared by Headquarters for JMWAVE use under date of 15
December 1962 in DIR-05291.

2. IDEN A was initially contacted for JMWAVE by Eli A.
SACHTSCHALE, who was introduced to him by the New Orleans KUJUMP
office on 27 December 1962. The JMWAVE cover situation was discussed
with IDEN A by SACHTSCHALE and IDEN A's assistance was requested.
IDEN A was first enlisted as the President of YOCOUGH, a JMWAVE cover
company. Also cleared and used as officers of YOCOUGH are IDEN D
and IDEN E. Although cleared and witting, these individuals are
contacted only when their signatures on YOCOUGH documents are re-
quired, all contact normally being with IDEN A. IDEN A also per-
mits use of his own company as a funding mechanism for YOCOUGH. He
has acted as a spotter for JMWAVE and has recommended several other
businessmen who are being used by JMWAVE. He has also made available
several oil companies in which he owns interests for use in back-
stopping cover of JMWAVE operational vessels. It is known that he
is used by Headquarters for several JBECHO activities IDEN A is
contacted several times each month by JMWAVE.

3. IDEN A has met Rufus E. MANGROLL and Colin R. HOWGRIND as
well as Eli A. SACHTSCHALE. He knows YOCOUGH, YOAFT and the JMWAVE
operational vessel IDEN B. He knows that Miami attorney IDEN C
participates in JMWAVE activities. So far as is known, he knows
no other JMWAVE personnel or assets.

4. It is requested that a 201 number be assigned IDEN A and
that it be made known to JMWAVE.

ANDREW K. REUTEMAN

ATTACHMENT;
Identities u/s/c

DATE TYPED
12 May 65
DATE DISPATCHED
MAY 19 1965

DISTRIBUTION:
3 - C/WH/C w/att
u/s/c
CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFGA-21422
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
201-

UNDER SEPARATE COVER
TO: UFGA-21422

IDENTITIES

IDEN A: Alfred J. *Moran
DPOB: Not available
Res: 8422 South Claybourne Avenue
New Orleans, Louisiana
Bus: 909 South Broad Street
New Orleans, Louisiana

IDEN B: M/V BARB
IDEN C: James Costello
IDEN D: Glean E. Magnuson
IDEN E: Robert T. Nieset
