# 104-10121-10304
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
INTERVIEW PROCESSING SHEET
ROUTING -Do Not Reproduce

Subject: Morales David s. # 39418
Advice received reveals thatthe subject person is scheduled
for overseas travel as indicated below

Departure 28 11453 Title & GS-12
Grade
Office &
Destination Moscow Thion VYH
Cover State Inligrey Passport
Type & No.
Return
Date

PRELIMINARY PROCESSING - A reviewof this file and the above information reveals:

☐ No special briefing topics or ☐ See below

☐ No special cover problems or ☐ See below

☐ No special debriefing by other or ☐ Requires debriefings on
(as circled) SI Q CRYPT

☐ No special badges or credentials or ☑ See remarks

REMARKS

out 11/53
Date of Polygraph 10/53
CLC 10/55
INTERVIEW - On the indicated date subject was interviewed on the following points:

1. ☑ Security regulations in general.
2. ☑ Travel Precautions (to carry nothing identifying him with CIA).
3. ☑ Cover Story (nature of cover; adequacyor prior briefing; possibility of
inconsistencies; briefing of spouse).
4. ☑ Personal Affairs (proper handling of bank account, credit accounts, for-
warding of mail).
5. ☑ Personal Correspondence (no mention of CIA in letters to and from subject).
6. ☑ Personal Conduct (a. general good behavior, b. no black market or currency
transactions, c. po undue duriosity in natives in his area, d. no attempts
to identify or approach otherCIA personnel in area except for official
business and through official channels).
7. ☐ Other Travel (only official travel in or through Soviet controlled areas).
8. ☐ Other:

ACTION -

☑ Security debriefing by the undersigned ☐ Subject was referred to
completes action necessary in this case. the following for the indi-
cated additional briefing:

☐ The following were obtained from or ☐ Subject waspermitted to
subject and forwarded appropriately retain the following for turn in
for disposition. at a later date.

David L. Morales By: R. Benne
Date: 28 11755
