14-00000
104-10186-10410
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
PUTAL COPIES
16-26.
27 SECRET
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
theje
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
SAN SALVADOR
ION WHI
ADVANCE COPY SLOTTED
TIME
VR. FILE DIP, WIKAL, CAZ, CA/PROP, CI.CiloPS, C1/C2, Fi, FilINT, 8006
ECRET 201402
92-72
DIR INFO HEXI WAVE CITE SALY 5513
WH DIN CUBA
:
HEF A) HSSW-2195 (NOT SENT MEXI, WAVE)
3) DIR--7501
C) DIR-74952
21-26
SAL 52564)
:
ICS
SS SB
FLES AR
IS LOC
ES CA
CAS S
20 JAN 65 IN 63642
06
1. AMBASSADOR DELADISE FOLLOW UP APPROACH TO PRESE
Cuban Defictor
RIVERA PENDING RECEPT OF LEXI GOVT REACTION SURFACINE.
06
HE UNDERSTANDABLY WAR OF LETTING FIVERA TOO ENTHUSED OVER
PROPOSAL WHEN ADANA
TORPEDO OF.
92-12
ERICAN KLJUCTION OF SURFACING RIGHI
2. WHILE CALVELLAS PAPER RECEIVED MEF A FILL
MAKE INTERESTING FREDO DE NOT CLEAR ON UND SLATED TO
PRESENT IT.
ASSIN
CuBom defecton
GOES REQUEST
State
HATTER THEN
BEING MADE AVAILATURTHER DEBRIEFI
Cvetor
16-2.6
SSTATION
3.-45-3701935-529, Si-... 8,199 - ST10
FEELS IT WOULD SE UNDESIRCABLE SURFACE NAMES OF A TRAINEES
FOR FOLLOWING REASONS:
JACKET
GIBR

14-00000
LEGRIE
avata
ING3642
thie 2
:
A. ES WORLD HAVE 10 ARREST SUL PERSONS MENTIONED G
Dilicta
INFO. ALTHO
IT WOULD APPEAR : HAT GOES DOES NOT BELIEVE
DO RIVER INDICATED THAT HE WILLING TO MAKE THE ARRESTS, STATION] 16-26
INCLINED TO JUST THAT HE WOULD FOLLOW THROUGH DUE FEAR OF
STIRRING UP SALVADORANT LEFTISTS, AD LACK OF JURIDICAL GROUNDS
Delictor
2
FOR PROSECUTION.:
2. ALTHO AE HAD KNOWLEDGE THAT AT LEAST 75 SALVADORANS
RECEIVED GAN TRAINING PETWEEN AL 1953 AND AFSIL 1964, HE WAS
ABLE TO FURVISH ONLY 35 NACIES. OF THESE, LESS THAN HALF ASS
ΚΝΟΥΝ ΤΟ 53 TRUE MANES. WE THUS FEEL THAT IT WOULD 35 SETTER
NOT TO MENTION ANY OF THE GA NANES, STAND ON THE 75 FIGURE,.
Dalector
AND IPLY THAT HAS HADE NAMES OF ALL 75 AVAILABLE TO
DES THO PRESUMAELY AWAITING PROFITIOUS TIME TO ROUND THEM UP.
C. GAN TRAINEES HAVE BEEN ACTIVE SINCE RETURN FRON
CUBA AND ONLY RECENTLY STEPS CEKS TAKEN BY FUAR MILITARY
asset
COMMISSION TO REACTIVATE THEM. SINCE IN KEY POSITION
TO REPORT ON THIS BUILDUP, THERE IS GOOD CHANCE OF PASSIVE FO
INFO AT LATER DATE WHICH WOULD FERIT INEN TO CATCH WHOLE GROUP
RED HANDED WITH EVIDENCE ON WHION THEY COULD BE PROSECUTED.
Rejector
INFO COULD SE USED AT TIGE THE TO SOLSTER GOES CASE.
CRET
:
G
81BR

14-00000
ECRET
2720
A
Arleden
16-26
I INTEL AGENS SALVADOR EMICO MION CONTENIG
MENTION IN TESTIMONY (PAGE 55 OF OP. PAPER) THAT
CUBANS ALSO RECRUITED SALVADCRANS AS INIEL AGENTS AND SURFACE
Taiset
ton
CASE DOSSIER AS EXIFLE, WITHOUT HENTIOVING
CASES. THIS COULD AVOID SURFACING OF
20 WOULD PROBABLY TURN INTO HOSTILE ACENT VIS-A-VIS
STATION IS HIS ME ENTIONED. SURFACING OF CASE SHOULD
Tangul
BE PRECEDED BY AFREJI,כו
Pat
11に
11
5. RE FADE 55 OF DRAFT CAS PAPER, WE RECOMMEND DELETION
OF DGI ESTATE THAT CUES PLANNING AGGRESSION AGAINST Ch...
ΤΟ STATION ΑNOWLEDGE IT HAS NO BASIS IN FACT AND COULD
COUNTERPRODUCTIVE FOR PROP PURPOSES OF PAPER.
6.
:.
16-26
IF FOJECITING REOU TENDATIONS APPROVED BY HOS, BLATION
EWISA SES FOLLOWING ONLY TO TO 10 JES APPROVAL:
A. KICKS GOES KICKS OFF OPERATION DY ARESHING PALICIPALS IN
Tangt
MS WITER ANDET LESS THAT
EVIDENCE OF EXTENSIVE CLA 20 KJARNS TO OAS.
5. MALLIKAT A CASSIVEN THE!
DTAILS OF COCAN SUASIVE EFFOR: ILVADOS AD
:
BR

14-00000
Dipt stale
dificacio
PETITIONS AVAILABLE TO TESTI.
C
ayb Stile
INGRESSOMEISTRIBUTES REVIER RAPID OF
REF A PAPER FOR STUDY BY CAS .E.IBERS.
Afictor
D. THEN IS MADE AVAILABLE TO ANSWER QUESTIONS.
7. REQUEST COMMENTS.
SECRET
CFN
ING3642
بی نهم
CCKET
C
