104-10048-10252
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECURITY INFORMATION
CONFIDENTIAL

From: BOGOTA
Report No: TLB-1684 Local File No:
No. of Pages:
No. of Enclosures: Memo

Report Made By: George S. Vinoops/Unt
Approved By:

Distribution:
Orally to:
By copy to:
Washington - 3
Caracas - 1
Guatemala City - 1
Havana - 1
Quito - 1
Maracaibo - 1
Guayaquil - 1
Files - 2

Source Cryptonym: See below
References: None

Source, Operational Data, and Comments:
The information in this report was obtained from a local detective who
works for the National Police. An informant of the Police in Paris
provided a report to the latter concerning activities of the Colombian
delegation, and he added names of delegates of certain other countries.
This informant is studying in Paris and he accompanied the delegates
to Berlin. It is likely that the interested stations have this infor-
mation, but it is thought it might serve to confirm, or possibly add a
bit to, the material already on hand.

30-77991

IR COPY

CONFIDENTIAL

SECURITY INFORMATION

APERTURE CAND MEPRODUCTIO
13-00000

SECURITY INFORMATION
CONFIDENTIAL

Subject: Delegates to Youth Festival
in Berlin

Report No: TLB-1684
Place Acquired: Colombia, Bogota
Date of Information: August-September 1961
Evaluation: B-2
Date Acquired: January 1962
Source: Local Detective
Date of Report: 29 January 1962

1. Bouree reports that an informant in Paris has submitted information to the
local Police concerning delegates of certain other countries to the III
Festival Mundial de la Juventud held in Berlin in August and September 1961.
Those names together with the camments of the informant are included in
the following paragraphs.

2. The delegation of Guatemala consisted of the followings
Edelberto TORRES Rivas, Novena Ave. 8. No. 110
Octavio REYES ortiz, 17 c. o. No. 76
Hugo BARRIOS K100, 12 Calle Oriente No. 58.
José Victor PONZALEZ, 8 Ave. Bur No. 11

3. The following is a list of the Veneauelan delegates!
Juvenel HERRERA, estudiante do derecho
Francisco MIERKS, peligroso
Cordova ARMANDO, estudiante de derecho in Cumaná
Micolas CURIEL Acosta, escritor de teatro
Juan Pedro ROJAS, pintor
Yolanda Steffens de ROJAB, casada con el anterior

4. The Bouadoran delegates are as followes
Enrique Gil Gilbert, escritor
Enrique QUINIBERO.
Patricic CUEVAS, estudiante de medicina da Praga

5. The delegation of Cuba consisted of the followings

Nicolas GUILLEN, poeta y escritor
Santiago GRAJALES, obrero
Antonio NUNZZ-Jimenes,/profesor)de, Podagogía y "responsable de la
delegación de Cuba". Es peligroso y cuando hubo necesidad
de retratarlo en Paris no se dejó.
Francisco GARCIA Benites, comerciante de Holguin
Jose CANETTI, comerciante en Santiago de Cuba

Classification CONFIDENTIAL

SECURITY INOPAMA

02316
