14-00000
104-10177-10217
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
3
50
3
TOTA
ГАЗЕ 31
217777
2..3-5
CRET 2213222 AF 77 STAFF
CIJE CARACAS 32956
TO: DIRECTOR.
fil
FAI
WEAR REINING נגרר %ע:יפ ארט
1. 15 MARCH 1977 88. ELG2:0
...073 10 101.01 382 : SC SS
A
E. LACE
MSTRICT OF COLOCA
T WITH REPSENTATICS Or
REQUESTED WHATEVER LEADS AND INFORMATION VELIVE
AGENCIES COULD PROVIDE IN ANY CONECTION BETREEA ORLANDO 2050R
AVILA AND THE ASSASSINATION OF FORMER CHILEAN AMBASSADOR AND
CASINET MINISTER ORLANDO LETELIER.
2.
ASCARLETTED ON 20 PRIL HAT
CHIEF OF OPERATIONS OF AD
:
;
CACIA,
EXPRESSE) DISSATISFACIONIRITH THE LACK OF SALA 2 TO
LASTANI WIM
STATEMENT. SINCE CISIP SFICIALS HAD EXTENDEDES,
SECRET
RICARDO MORALES /201
14-00000
انسراه
201
CARACAS. DISIP OFFICIALS HAD FACILITATED PROTES INTERVIEW
AND DEBRIEFING OF CR20 BOSCH AND THEY HAD PROVIDED PROPPER WITH
ONE PEICE OF EVIDENCE WHICH PROPPER APPARENTLY WAS SEEKING
EAGERLY, A MAP OF THE ITED STATES DELINEATING AREAS OF
RESPASISILITY TO INDICATE THAT GUTELERAD NOVO ADICIO
NOVO, CUBAN EXILE TO HAVE WRISTICO EGR CUBAN COOLE
AS CONCEANED THAT ANF JADICOTING AS OF
3.
DISIP GFFICIAL, HAD BEEN SUMMONED SY PROPPER TO APPEAR IN COURT AS
A HITNESS, MORALES WAS CONCERNED THAT CRUE WITHIN THE JURISDICTION
OF THE U.S. COURTS, HE COULD BE CHARGED WITH UNSPECIFIED VIOLATIUNS I
DUS, MORALES,
IS IN THE US.
HADONGOING,
CẢ NGILY HOME >
CHKANEL BECAUSE OF POSSIBLE SENSITIVITY CON
TIVITY OF COURSE HAVE NO DOUBATION TO REMOVAL OF TH
SECRET
:
14-00000
『ラッツ13
VR
TOP21724 MAY 77
FROM THE PLVACADET CATEGORY.
5. FILE: 75-2-20/3200-12-200/1.
SECRET
E2. IMEJET.
14-00000
FORM 30200
771 MFG 7.78
CABLE SEC DISSEN DY
41
PERSONIUNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT
...
TOTAL COPIES 21-2
SECRET
2
24
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIOITED
STAFF
RF. FILE.
V. Gioms, 2004, 914,
2
5
3
6
YLA 8
ACTION.
NFO
YEPSIEG
T 812745 Ε14826
ن گردد
PAGE 21-
TOR:2922342 APR 77
SECRET 2922252 APR 77 STAFF
CITE CARACAS 32949
TO: DIRECTOR, LA/MIAMI
RYBAT WNINTEL REAM
DOC. MICRO. SER.
2510 2 1977
MICROFILMED
20
0
1. ON 28 APRIL 1977 WKDIET-5 REPORTED THAT RICARDO
MORALES NAVARRETE (SUBJECT OF 201-2285923), ΑΚΑ
"EL MONO", IS RUMORED TO HAVE KILLED IN MIAMI A CUBAN
EXILE BY THE NAME OF ROBERTO PARSONS. WKDIET-5
SAYS THAT PARSONS WORKED FOR BKHERALD AND UNDERTOOK
IN 266922
CARA 32949
ABSTRACT
SAH
49 (23) 15
PMB
٤) د١٨(
Kathy
SEVERAL CLANDESTINE TRIPS TO CUBA, HE SAID AT TIMES PARSONS Skiba
HELPED GET PEOPLE OUT OF CUBA FOR A PRICE. PARSONS HAS
BEEN MISSING SINCE DECEMBER 1976. THE EXACT REASON FOR
HIS ALLEGED MURDER IS UNKNOWN.
Tube El
10711-779687-
2. FOLLOWING ARE TRACES ON ROBERTO PARSONS: ACCORDING
TO JMWAVE-1302, 16 FEBRUARY 1968, AN AMCLEVE-15
MIAMI CONTACT WAS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH ROBERTO PARSONS
RAMIREZ, BORN 12 JULY 1932 IN GUANTANAMO. PARSONS WAS A
BKHERALD AGENT FROM 1965 THROUGH 1967 WHEN HE WAS TERMINATED
ON 32 NOVEMBER WITHOUT PREJUDICE, HE WAS USED IN EXFILTRATION
AND INFILTRATION OPERATIONS AND OCCASIONALLY REPORTED GRATUITOUSLY
1
8201-779687
SECRET
RECORD COPY
!
296p177
201-285723
:
14-00000
AAS
CADLE SEC OSGED
PERSON UNIT NOTIDIEO
ADVANCE COPY ISSUES SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT
T 812745
ACTION .
ECEIVED
MAY 11
FILE
VR
TOPAL COPIES
SECRET
17
2
3
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE ID PRONIBITED
STAFF
S
ه
E1A898
PAGE 22-22
IN 266922
TOR: 292234Z AFR 77
CARA 32949
ON THE DSE AND DGI.
3. INDEX PARSONS, FILE: 75-120-28 201-0285923.
E2, IMPDET.
SECRET
14-00000
AR APPEARED
FIGE 55
(
ESQUIRE
MARCH 1917
The
Incident
by Taylor Branch and John Rothchild
How two mild-mannered reporters, on the
trail of a Washington bomber,
landed in Caracas and ran afoul of the
Venezuelan secret service, warring
Cuban terrorists, the Miami police, the State
Department, the C.I.A., the F.B.I..
and the most dangerous man alive-all
this, and their mothers didn't know
a damn thing about it
"Are There Pay Phones in Caracas?
They are on the Pan Am night flight to Caracas, three
hours away from at least a hundred murder stories
and a lot of steaming intrigue.
What are are our chances of getting through this
alive?" asks Rothchild.
Well, that all depends on who you talk to and how
paranoid they are," says Branch. "Our friends in
Washington used to be simple journalists and policy
analysts. Now they are three-pay-phone men. That
means you can't call them without using three pay
phones. You call them up and all they'll say is 'phone
number ore. Then they go to pay phone number one
and you call them again. Then they ask you for the
number of another pay phone near yours, and they call
you on that one."
"What do you talk about?"..
"Things like pay phones and letter bombs and wheth-
er the Feds can be trusted. The last time I called they
told me we would be walking into four nests of known
killers: the Cuban exiles in Venezuela, the Venezuelan
secret police, the C.I.A. and the Chilean secret police."
"Is that true?"
"Well, it's true that all those people are down there,"
Branch says, "but I don't think they would be after
us."..
Rothchild does not look reassured. He does not like
the way Branch reels off the life histories of all the
C.L.A. Cubans he has known, especially since the point
is always that the situation is too complicated for
words. "Tell me," Rothchild says gravely, "did you tell
your mother you were going to Venezuela?"
Branch squirms at the cruel question. He wants to
appear as knowledgeable and confident as possible, be-
cause he has dragged Rothchild into this adventure on
less than a day's notice. "No, I didn't teil her," he ad-
mits. "It's too complicated. But I think we'll only have
one point of danger."
"When's the point of danger?"
"Well, we may get into the prison and get our an-
swers," Branch replies, "or we may get them from peo
ple in the Venezuelan government. Either way, we'll
know who did the murders and who paid the killers
and what other murders they've done. That's what we
hope, anyway. If we get that information, we'll be hot
antil we get rid of it. We'll have to phone it out of
Thitheaterta/201
contraved
:
i
14-00000
(
Orlando Bosch
there and then run like bandits."
Ricardo Morales
Branch looks out the airplane window and pictures
Orlando Letelier lying in the middle of Massachusetts
Avenue, his legs blown off at the thigh, his torso pul
verized, detectives all around. On the curb nearby sat.
his passenger Ronni Moffitt, her eyes frozen, holding
her throat. The bomb in Letelier's car had blown a
sliver of metal through Ronni Moffitt's carotid artery,
and she was drowning in her own blood. Her husband
sat nearby, suffering from shock, watching his wife
die. She was twenty-five. The killers were the kind of
people who would unachine-gun a whole crowd of people
in a public square just to hit their mark. They
wouldn't care about the others. Ronni Moffitt could just
as easily have been half the people Branch knew in
Washington. The next day Jerry Ford rode right over
the bloody spots in the road on his way to a reception
for the president of Liberia; he never said a word
about Washington's first gangland-style political as
sassination. Unwise to talk about it, especially if the
force behind the murders is most likely the govern-
ment of Chile. The military junta there overthrew
Salvador Allende with a big boost from the CIA,
which is still thick as thieves with the generala. Le-
telier was ambassador to the United States under Al-
lende, then foreign affairs minister, interior minister
and defense minister. He had been jailed and tortured
by the generals after the coup, then, a year later, de-
ported, and in September of last year he was stripped
of his citizenship
From the day of the murder, Branch had been-pon-
dering the bomb he thought was used on Letelier-
C4, a white, odorless dough resembling Silly Putty.
Branch had heard many Cubans tell tales about C-4
and its predecessor, C-3. It was the C.I.A.'s favorite
substance for sabotage in the war against Castro, and
thousands of Cubans were trained in its use. Branch
had not been surprised when evidence came out that
Cuban exilés raight have pulled the Letelier job, but
he was surprised by tips he received that they had also
killed hundreds of others on a big spree in the Carib-
bean. God, there is something big going on, he had
thought. And all his sources and his instincts told him
the answers were in Venezuela, of all places.
It was now October 21, one month to the day since
the Letelier murder.
こ
"So you decided to take a little trip to Caracas too, I.
guess." It is Hilda I n, a reporter for The Mi
News, standing in the aisle, lowking down at us. She
is a specialist on Latin terrorism in Miami.
"Looks like it," says Branch, shrugging. So much for
the secret trip. Yet he is inclined to trust Inclin, even
though he an! Pothchild had met her only that day,
while going through clips at the morgue of the News.
The three work out a way to make contact in Caгacas.
Eranch is embarrassed at being a little reserved.
Incian is candid, her face cheerful and open.
Inclán leans over and whispers, "Listen, I think you
should be careful. There's something strange going on.
This flight is crawling with cops and prosecutors from
Miami.".
Branch and Rothchild turn their heads in unison,
and their necks sink down into their shoulders. There
are two young Latin men in the back with neatly
trimmed beards, unisex hairdos and brightly colored
shirts. There are several men in the front who do not
look like ordinary passengers. Rothchild decides there
might not be any ordinary passengers...
"What are they doing here?" Branch asks bluntly.
"Who knows?" says Inclán. "I know these guys from
Miami. They give me tips sometimes. But now they
aren't giving me the time of day. I don't understand
them, so I'm going to act just like they are. I don't
think you should let them in on what you're up to,
either."
"Those cops are Cubans, aren't they?" Branch asks,
Inclán nods. Branch worries. Cubans on the Miami
police force are a strange lot, he has heard. The cops
want to infiltrate Cuban terrorist groups and drug-
running organizations, but sometimes it turns out that
the terrorists and drug runners are infiltrating the
сора.
Branch and Rothchild exchange signs of bewilder
ment as Inclán drifts back to her seat. "Jesus Christ,
Orlando Letelier's bombed car, Washington, D.C.
:
contioned
;
14-00000
John," Branch mutters. "I figured we'd be in for some
scrapes, but I never thought it would start before we
even got there." Then he's all business. "I've got to
give you a quick briefing on our main man while we
have the chance. We may not have as much leisure
time as we expected."
Branch pulls down their dinner trays and spreads out
a pile of notes and news clippings. Then he pulls out a
police mug shot. "Meet Orlando Bosch," he says.
Rothchild stares incredulously at a porcine Cuban
man with a thin moustache and thick lips. "He looks
like the headmaster of a military school."
"I know," Branch says, "but he's a killer. He's also
a pediatrician. This whole thing's like that-yin and
yang, Boston Strangler and Mad Hatter all mixed up."
Branch eyes the mass of clippings and notes, wonder-
ing where to begin. "It would take all night to go
through what I've heard about Bosch, so I'll get you
up to Letelier as quick as I can for now. The back
ground is simple: Bosch has been a political terrorist
John Kothchild
::
Hilda Inclán
:
Taylor Branch
what they call an action man-ever since the late For-Miami harbor. He got ten years, but he was paroled
ties in Cuba. He worked for Castro, then for the C.I.A.,in 1972. That brings us to his international period."
and then he denounced the C.I.A. He has been an anti-Branch picks up one particular clip and holds it in
Castro outlaw since the mid-Sixties, always telling the readiness. "Bosch went underground two years after
Miami Cubans not to trust the C.I.A. in their war his parole and the pace of Miami bombings escalated.
against Castro. Now most of the hard-line Cubans be-So did terrorist bombings against Castro's embassies
lieve him. Bosch is the patriarch of Cuban terrorism." all over the world. Then, in 1974, important Cubans
Branch pauses, then flips briskly through the clip-started getting knocked off in gangland-style murders.
pings. "Bosch got arrested and indicted pretty regular-A lot of groups, including Bosch's, took credit for
ly all through the Sixties. He usually got of. The wit-them. The word was that C.I.A. stooges were being
nesses against him tended to sweat a lot and forget eliminated. Bosch became a phantom. Mysterious fig-
things on the stand, if they even showed up. In gen-ures with names like Ernesto would pop up in the Mi-
eral, Bosch had a threefold operation: first, politicalami press to speak for him. Here's a Miami News clip
terror against Castro sympathizers; second, ordinary from this period. It's headlined 'Bosch Declares War
crimes like extortion from rich people and companies on Castro.' Hilda wrote it. She's the last American re-
to finance the political terror; and third, all kinds of porter to interview Bosch. Shortly after it came out,
wars and feuds with his terrorist rivals. Finally, Bosch Bosch slipped out of the country."
got nailed in 1968 for shelling a Polish freighter inWhile Rothchild studies the clips, Branch continues,
"He got arrested in Venezuela about two years ago.
The Justice Department decided not to ask for his re-
turn to the United States despite all he's wanted for.
That's weird. Then the Venezuelans turned him loose
and he left with a bunch of Chilean bodyguards and a
big pile of money. I heard all kinds of stories about
Fosch being down in Chile with the Pinochet, junta
there, bargaining. Now the stories jump to February
of last year, when Bosch got arrested in Costa Rica
right before Kissinger visited.. The rumor is that he
was plotting to assassinate Kissinger. Bosch got out
of Costa Rica somehow, and pretty soon there was a
secret nfeeting in the Dominican Republic of all the
major Cuban terrorist groups, which the Dominicans
allowed, of course. There was a negotiated truce, and
the terrorists united under Bosch in an umbrella group
called CORU, supposedly with the support of several
juntas in Latin America.
"Now in the last month there has been the Letelier
mürder," Branch continues grimly. "The terrorists
showed that they were not afraid to kill in the United
States, right-in the capital. They have even threstened
to kill one of the F.R.I. agents on the Letelier case.
And his flancée. The anonymous threats show they
have collected a lot of intelligence about the agent's
life. The F.B.I. is upset. Then, two weeks after Letelier
was killed, terrorista blew up a Cuban plane near Rar-
bados, killing seventy-three people. Castro blamed the
C.I.A. and canceled the anti-skyjacking treaty. The
terrorists loved it: Castro and the Americans getting
3
14-00000
"And you're Raúl." Er.
gives him a limp hand-
shake and stumps down in his seat. Hilda lesian shakes
her head and walks off.
"Who's Raul?" asks Rothchild.
"He's Rolando Martinez son-in-law. One of the Wa.
mad at each other. Then Bosch got er. ed in Vene-
zuela again, along with a whole bunch of Cuban exiles,
Stories have been seeping out in the Venezuelan press
linking Bosch with both Letelter and the Cuban plane.
I picked up similar stories in Miami. My sources there
tell me the Cubana in jail are almost vil forterentes i optat a lot of time with him in Miami."
men, F.B.I. informants and a few veterans of the Ven-
ezuelan secret police, the DISIP. Some people say
DISIP has tortured the hell out of these guys, but
other people say DISIP is in bed with thein-holding
them under protective custody till the heat blows over.
It's the biggest damn mess you ever saw."
"You folks wouldn't mind telling me who you are and
what you're up to, would you?"
Rothchild and Branch look up at the man standing
in the aisle. He wears a leisure suit with a flashy shirt
opened to his sternum, showing a lot of tan and some
tufted chest hair.
"Well," says Branch, "I'm not sure. What are you
doing? We're just thinking about racetracks and Cu-
bans and stuff like that."
"Corse on now. You can tell me," the man urges.
"Don't tell him anything," says Hilda Inclán from
behind. She is laughing as if it were a game, but her
eves signal a warning.
Branch is way off-balance. "I'll take the fifth. Why
don't we start with you?"
"Okay," says the man, smiling. "I'll play it your way,
friend. My name's George Yoss. I'm an assistant
state's attorney out of Miami." He flashes an ID card.
Branch and Rothchild can't believe it. He seems more
1 like a condominium salesman who wishes he could be a
golf pro. "Is that right, Hilda?" Branch asks.
Yeah, but he's being a bad boy tonight," she re-
plies "Tell him to mind his own business, whatever
that is."
:
"What's so bad about that?" asks Rothch:id.
"I don't know. It's just that he probably knows who
my Cuban contacts are, and I don't know what the hell
he's up to. You see, sonse of the people who have been
telling me about the terrorists are right-wingers and
some of them are left-wingers. I don't care about any
thing except the Letelier murder, but I think it would
be healthy for us if we could keep the two groups
separate. The only way we can do that is to stay kind
of incognitor
"You're doing great so far," Rothchild says His
mind has been wandering over the Rosch briefing.
"What makes you think we can get into the prison to
see Bosch and his friends?" he asks. "And why would
they want to talk to us?"
"It's a long shot," Branch answers. "But Bosch is in
a tough spot. The Castro government wants him, and
Bosch knows that would mean curtains for him. He
also knows that he could get killed any day in Vene
zuela by either his friends or his enemies. He may fig-
ure that his best chance to survive is to come to the
United States. What we hope is that he wants to get
some of his story out in the American press to force
the government to turn the screws and get him back in
the States. That's what I hear from some of our Vene-
zuelan contacts. I don't know if it's true, but they are
pretty high up. Now even if we can't talk to Bosch and
the other prisoners directly, we might get stuff indi-
rectly from the Venezuelans."
"What happens if all the Venezuelan contacts tura
Sout to be flaky?"
"Okay," says Yoss, "I'm going to give you one more
chance. I know you're a journalist. Why don't we start
with w who you work for?"
"Then we'll just have to poke around," says Branch.
"I have a lot of names. There's only one guy I know
down here personally. He's a Cuban named Ricardo
Morales. I interviewed him back in 1974, just before
he came to Venezuela. People in Miami tell me he's
way up high in the DISIP, the secret police. I don't
know what he's doing now, but he might be a good
fallback if nothing else works out."
Branch looks down and notices that his hands have
been covering up the news clippings unconsciously.
These gave me away, eh?" he says weakly. "I'll tell
you what, You've got me a little paranoid. Why don't
you give me the name of your hotel and I'll call you
when we get our feet on the ground? We can talk this;
over.
"Why don't we start with who you work for?" Yoss
persists. He is still kidding, but there is an edge to it.
You may need me down here. You never know. This
is a strange country and you guys could find yourselves
on the next pläne out. I'll give you one more chance."
I think I'll lay low for the moment," Branch says:
Yoss makes a few more thrusts, then saunters off.
"Maybe I was too set on getting into the country on
the sly," Branch says. "That sure didn't work out. This
Higer's like a goddamn convention! Tell me, Hilda,
None of the Cuban cops is named Raúl Diaz, I hope?"
That's Diaz right behind you," she replies.,
Oh shit!" says Branch. He turns slowly in his seat
and ends himself staring at one of the handsome
Cubans
You must be Taylor Branch," Raúl Diaz says with
a smila
Rothchild is encouraged. At least Branch knows one
real person. "What's he like?"
"He's one of the most cynical people I've ever. met,"
Branch replies, "but I liked him anyway. He doesn't
have any illusions about the business he's in, and he
makes fun of all the people who do. Ricardo is an old
operator, even though he's only in his late thirties. He
worked for Castro's secret police. Then he worked for
the C.I.A. as an explosives expert. He fought for the
Agency in the Congo in the mid-Sixties, and then be
came an F.B.I: informant. He's the guy who got Bosch
convicted in: 1969. Small world, isn't it? Île surfaced
in court with everything on tape. Then all hell broke
loose. Morales' car was blown up. He survived dut
blamed Rosch for trying to kill him. Morales himself
was indicted for first-degree murder, but he got off.
. He's a survivor if there ever was one."
"So he must hate Bosch, then," says Rothchild.
"Well, yes," says Branch, cocioued
..
14-00000
5
(
"It sounds
like Bosch and Storales have tried hard
enough to kill each other." Brauch hesi-
Bates and then decides not to tell Koth-
child that some of the old C.1.1. Cutans
in Miami believe Bosch and Morales
have patched things up. Branch does not
believe it and it would make things too
gnaried. "It's amazing that the Venezue
lans would have a guy like Morales high
up in their security apparatus," he says
absentmindelly-I mean he's a Cuban,
and he has worked for Castro, the C.L.A.,
and the F.B.I., and he's a veteran of
gangland-type warfare. It's like tinding
a West German high up in the CI.A. and
then discovering that he has also worked
for the KGB and the Shah of Iran. But
from what I hear, that's a pretty com-
mon background to have down here.
There are Cubans all over Latin Amer-
ica."
Branch begins packing up the news-
clips. "I'm paranoid as hell about this
plane," he says. "We're supposed to get
a call at the hotel around midnight.
That gives us an hour to get through
customs and get settled. I want to
hustle away from these guys and make
sure we're on time."
A Greeting from Rómulo
Rothchild and Inclán notice a huddle
of shady five-footers lurking in a dark
corner beside the airport entrance.
They must be a Venezuelan tour group,
Rothchild thinks, waiting for a burgain
Right out of the country. I'm not going
(to get paranoid about-everything I see.
But the group stares at the passen-
gers; their suits blend so well into the
shadows that all you see are their mir-
ror sunglasses. They look like a dis-
play of Foster Grants at the back of
an unlighted drugstore.
back and forth from one room to the
other.
In about ten minutes, Turtleneck ro
turns aral hands each of the reporters a
citación-in triphrate. Rothchuid, trans-
lating for Branch, doesn't remember
the legal defnition of the word cita-
ción. He dors, however, recognize a
word farther down in the document-
cárcel. Carcel means jail The reporters
are being sammoned to attend some
kind of inerting in a sinister-sounding
room, D-034, in a building somewhere
in Caracas at nine a.m. the following
day. The letterhead belongs to DISIP.
Turtleneck keeps saying it is all rou-
tine-just sign the citación and every-
body can get a good night's sleep. While
Rothchild struggles to understand the
fine print, Inclán tells him she thinks it
might be a mistake to acknowledge the
stimmons. It might conceivably be con-
strued as an admission of something,
and the reporters don't know what it is
for. Inclán decides to try an offensive
to get information. She whips out her.
notebook as if to write a trafic ticket
and asks Turtleneck what his name is.
He doesn't answer. She repeats the
question and finally he mumbles, "In-
spector Romulo,"
"That's The all there is to it?"
"Yeah. Just Rómulo."
"Who ordered you to do this?"
"I don't know. I can't say. It's just a
procedure."
"Why is this happening to us?"
"It is so because it is so."
Inclán writes that down.
Branch, whose rudimentary knowl.
edge of Spanish often led him to offend
the Cuban community in Miami-where
he would mean to say "what a grand
wedding this is" and end up saying
"what tremendous tits you have"-is
getting a headache trying to keep up
with the conversation. "Isn't there
somebody who speaks English here?"
he keeps asking.
"That's all right," says Rothchild.
"The guy isn't saying a damn thing in
Spanish, either." Inclán agrees.
Logical explanation is that some
one on the plans tipped off the Vene
zuelans. But why?
Branch thrushes around in his spy
world for answers. Nothing seems to
fit. The three of then theorize all the
way to the hotel, and they can only
nettie, like Alexander Haig, on a sinis-
ter force, Branch is still sure that the
summens will be lifted as soon as he
can talk te his friendly contacts in
Venezuela. Ve Kothchild keeps looking out
the window for a tail,
A Visit to a Small Hotel
The taxi drops them off at the Anauco
Hilton, where Inclán is staying. Branch
offers to carry Inclin's bags. The lobby,
amazingly, is filled with the same
DISIP lu.kers; they have managed to
move their whole scene intact. They
are leaning against walls and sitting
on the couches. Branch looks toward
the elevator in time to see the Miami
attorneys and cops scurrying to get in-
side, frantically pushing buttons to get
the door to close. They are as jittery
about seeing the reporters as the re-
porters are about seeing the Venezue
lan goons. And the most jittery of all,
in the raiddle of the elevator, is Ricar-
do Morales himself. Morales is staring
at the ceiling, trying to avoid eye con-
tact, and Branch has the feeling that
Morales is scared. It is the first time
he has seen fear on the face of this
hardened veteran of Congo wars and
Castro plots and murders. Seeing
Morales scared makes Branch scared,
He warns Inclán not to go anywhere or
do anything-just to call him when he
arrives at his hotel, the Avila.
Back in a taxi Branch is going
through another run of Cuban polities.
"I don't know, John," he says. "Maybe
Morales is behind all this, but I can't
figure out why he's doing it. He sure
looked as if he's in trouble. He could
have been making some secret deal with
those cops. Something he knows about
one
::think we were tailing the cops."
They stop looking only when the
Miami assistant state's attorneya and
cops; the same ones who have been
bugging Branch on the plane, go over
and give some of the men in the shad-
ows warm, Latin embraces. Inclán
thinks it is a meeting between the Mi-
Aami Jaw-enforcement contingent and
the Venezuelan secret police. She
catches up in the line and says she has
recognized one of the people in the po
lice huddle as Ricardo Morales, the
mysterious Cuban who is supposed to
be Branch's fallback contact in Carazine subscriptions. Inclán asks him if
cas. Branch is stunned. First he is read
ing clips about Cubans and cops, and
the Cubans and cops start fingering
him on the airplane. Now Morales.
"Give me your papers and follow
me!" a voice booms suddenly. It be
longs to a man in a turtleneck sweater
and leather jacket. A flunky moves next
to each reporter in the line. There is
nothing to do but hand over the pass
ports and follow.
Turtleneck and his garig herd the re-
porters into a special room at the back
of airport. disappears into an-
other office, leaving them alone with an
old man seated behind a desk. Thero
is furious typing coming from the adja-
cent roors into which Turtienerk has
disappeared. Ilis dunkies keep running
the
of those bombings in Miami.
Morales might not know that we were
on the flight by accident. He might
They stop looking
police keep circling, and an evasive Rómulo
keeps cracking his knuckles, pacing
back and forth between rooms, thrust
ing pens into the reporters' harids like
a door-to-door calesman pushing maga
they will go to jail for not signing.
Rómulo says, "No, you won't go to jail
for that, and I don't care what you do.
My orders were to hand you this ci
tación, and that I have done. The rest
is entirely up to you."
Inclán decides to accept the summons
but not to sign it, based on Rómulo's
assertion that it remains in force no
matter what. Branch and Rothébild go
along after a brief huddle. Romulo is
definitely peeved. He hands each of
them a summons in an envelope and
tells them to leave.
"I don't understand