1400000
104-10073-10061
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

de Verona

FORMATION REPORT
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title
18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CO-U-P-1-0-3-
COUNTRY: El Salvador
SUBJECT: Report of Conditions of the Country
Inhabited by a Special Representative
of the Cuban National Revolutionary
Council

DATE OF
INFO.: 7 Jun 62
PLACE &
DATE ACO.: San Salvador - 2 May 62
REPORT NO: 00-A-3228565
DATE DISTR. 28 June 1962
NO. PAGES 1
REFERENCES: (Cmimi-4417)
c/s Rodrigues

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION Source: DR. Jose Jose
SOURCE: Caben national exiles in the 25. Julio FERNANDEZ Gutierrez
05
Ssaree istsleyser who returned recently from a trip to the Central American
countries as special rape 6.
Zyn Cuban Revolutionary Council.

(This report was developed by An Army representative assigned to the office
of preparation.)

Attached
(sic-Gica Libaney is a copy of a papert in Spanish by Jose Julio
Fernandez Coclerres to Antonio de Verona. This report, written en 2 May 62,
is a full report to the Revolutionary Council of Cuba regarding general
conditions in El Salvador and specifically dealing with Cubans to that country.
The author of the report was sent to El Salvador for this particular purpose
and spent 45 days in El Salvados and other Central American countries.
Classified: CONFIRMUTIAL.)

-cod-

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

6/28
Ye Manus
Routed to 77W
with suggeste
they forward
to area
Pantalet Gran Colocatie
#09583xlerettissties
