104-10219-10282 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET
(INFORM CONTINUED CONTROL)

MEMORANDUM FOR: Federal Bureau of Investigation

SUBJECT:	Georges Papanton MITCHELL;
		Anastasia Martini DAKARJIN,
		Espionage – R.

1.	Reference is made to our memorandum of 17 July 1961,
captioned as above, and also to your letter dated 26 July 1961,
addressed to the Director, National Security Agency, with copy to this
Agency, subject: GEORGE Papanton MITCHELL; William Hamilton
MARTIN; MISCELLANEOUS – INFORMATION CONCERNED."

2.	The following information supplements the material on
Nicolas Georges DAMASCOU aka DAMASCUS aka DAMARCON aka
RAMASCUS reported in paragraph A of our 17 July 1961 memorandum,
referenced above.

A.	Our representatives in Melbourne advised that Australian
Security Service indices reflect that Nicolas Georges DAMASCOU aka
DAMASCO, Greek national, born 18 March 1931 at Alexandria, Egypt,
arrived at Sydney, Australia, on 6 October 1956, aboard the S. S.
STRATHNAVER, traveling on Greek Passport
No. 8083/1956, issued 8 March 1956 at Alexandria, Egypt. At the
time of his arrival in Sydney, DAMASCOU was in possession of
Australian Visa No. 154, issued in Cairo on 18 July 1956. He was
described as follows: single, 5 feet 10 inches tall, normal build,
brown eyes, black hair, occupation "writer". He departed Australia
on 28 May 1958 aboard the S. S. ORONSAY, destination not indicated,
and as of 18 July 1961 had not re-entered Australia.

B.	Our representatives in Mexico City meanwhile had
learned that Anastasia Georges DAMASCOU aka DAMASCUS, sister of
the above, on 8 July 1960 applied at the Mexican Consulate in San
Antonio, Texas, for a Mexican Tourist Card to enter Mexico to visit
her brother Nicolas Georges DAMASCOU, then residing at the Hotel

SECRET
(INFORM CONTINUED CONTROL)

New York in Mexico City. Her application was not approved as an entity
permit, she made no effort to renew her request. The Mexican
Government approved her initial application with the condition that she deposit with the
Consulate a 10,000 Peso bond, as a guarantee of her intention to deposit
Mexico upon expiration of her tourist card. No current information
does contain any record of her actual arrival in Mexico following
approval of her 8 July 1960 application. The most recent correspond-
ence on these case contained in Macao files is dated 25 January 1961,
reflecting that Anastasia DAMASCO again requested a Tourist Card
on or about the date of the letter, at which time her address in the
United States was given as c/o Mexican Consulate, San Antonio, Texas.
In reply to her second application for an entry card, an unnamed Alberto
Velez again replied with a request that she post a bond to the amount of
10,000 Pesos, to guarantee departure from Mexico upon expiration of
her tourist visa. There is no further information currently available
on her further travel plans.

C.	With reference to Nicolas Georges DAMASCOU, on basis
of the information reported in preceding paragraphs, a recheck by our
representatives with officials of the United States Embassy in Mexico
City indicated that Nicolas Georges DAMASCO, born 18 March 1931
at Alexandria, Egypt, holder of Greek Passport #1981 issued in
Alexandria, Egypt, on 8 March 1956 and valid to 10 April 1961, with
address of 6 Elizabeth Bay Road, Elizabeth Bay, Sydney, Australia,
was the recipient of a United States Visa on 26 October 1960. On his
application, DAMASCOU indicated that he desired to visit the United
States for a period of four months, described as a pleasure trip to visit
his sister. The visa application did not include any destination address
in the United States. It was also noted that the visa card maintained on
Nicolas DAMASCOR in the Embassy in Mexico City contains a notation
"10600 to Immigration and Naturalization Service, Los Angeles,
May 29 1961."

D.	Through a reliable confidential source our representa-
tives in Egypt had learned in the interim that Nicolas DAMASCOU, who
is identical with the individual described in preceding paragraphs,
currently resides in Los Angeles, California, at 1100 North Gardner,
Apartment 18, and that he advised his mother and younger brother,
still residing in Alexandria, that he plans to marry the daughter of an
American official, who is not further identified. The same source
also advised that Georges DAMASCOU aka DAMASCUS, father of
Nicolas and Anastasia DAMASCOU aka DAMASCUS, died during the
summer of 1960. Following the demise of the father, Angelika
DAMASCOU nee GAVOURAS, widowed mother of Nicolas and Anastasia

SECRET
(INFORM CONTINUED CONTROL)

DAMASCOU, in company of a younger son not identified by name, had
planned to migrate from Egypt to join her son Nicolas in the United
States. However, prior to the finalization of these plans, Angelika
DAMASCOU suffered a stroke, at details concerning which are not
known, but she is reported as of this writing still to be partially par-
alyzed and obviously to unable to travel. No further information was available on
the possible future migration plans of Angelika DAMASCOU nee
GAVOURAS and/or of her unidentified younger brother of Nicolas
DAMASCOU and of Anastasia DAMASCOU.

E.	On basis of the reported filing of an application for a
United States Visa in July 1956 at the U.S. Embassy in London by
Anastasia DAMASCOU, our representatives in London were requested
to institute checks of London indices in the names of Nicolas
DAMASCOU and of Angelika DAMASCOU. SA advised that as of
late July 1961, they held no traces on Nicolas Georges DAMASCOU aka
DAMASIOU aka DALLACS aka DAMASCCA, but that although they had
no traces on Anastasia DAMASCOU, they were continuing to check her
possible residence in London during 1956, based on the reported visa
application data. SA advised that they hold no traces on either
Nicolas Georges DAMASCO aka DAMASIOU aka DAMASCUS or on
his father Aristotle Georges DAMASCOR.

3.	It is suggested that the indices of the Department of States,
Visa Section as well as the indices of the Immigration and Naturaliza-
tion Service, Department of Justice, may contain further detailed
information on the current immigration status, whereabouts in the
United States, and also the contents in the United States of Nicolas
Georges DAMASCO aka DALLASCUS and of Anastasia Georges DAMASCOU
aka DAMASCUS, and any other members of the family who may have
applied for entry visas from abroad.

4.	With regard to Justo SIERRA Casanova, mentioned in above
referenced memorandum of 17 July 1961, in connection with Nicolas
DAMASCOU aka DAMASCUS, it is suggested that the indices of the
Department of State may contain additional information on his activities
during his service at the Mexican Embassy in Washington, D.C.

5.	The information reported above is for the internal use of

SECRET
(INFORM CONTINUED CONTROL)

addresses only and may not be further disseminated without the prior
permission of the originator.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS):

/S/
WILLIAM K. HARVEY

2 cct: National Security Agency
Attn: Mr. J. Wesley Reynolds

SECRET
(INFORM CONTINUED CONTROL)
