1400000
104-10070-10296 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

18 January 1952
Washington R. S. Travis 2268
New York SENSITIVE Secret-Security Information

TO LEA FROM ASHCRAFT BY SPECIAL SERVICES (TRAVIS) WA 8622
THIS IS SENSITIVE
THIS IS NEW CASE 9145. REFERENCE MADE TO KANK LEA'S CONVERSATION YESTERDAY WITH TRAVES AND ROSE REGARDING THE OPC REQUEST FOR CONTACT WITH THE RESEARCH INSTITURE OF AMERICA. AS RCSE INDICATED, HE WILL BE IN NEW YORK ON WEDNESDAY, 23 JANUARY, KAND WOULD LIKE TO HAVE YOU MAKE APRANGEMENTS TO MEET WITH THE APPROPRIATE PERSON OR PERSONS IN RIA TO DISCUSS A COVER CASE. (ROSE HAS, ADVISED THAT BOTH LEO CHERNE AND CARL HOVGARD HAVE BEEN GIVEN COVERT OPERATIONAL CLEARANCES. FOLLOWING IS THE BACKGROUND OF THIS CASE. THERE IS A MAN BY THE NAME OF WILLIAM J. ACOM, PRESENTLY WORKING FOR ECA IN WASHINGTON WHO IS GOING TO RESIGN FROM ECA AND COME WITH CIA, AND WILL GO OVERSEAS FOR OPC. HE IS GOING TO LEAVE ECA SOHETIME AROUND THE END OF THIS MONTH, AND MUST HAVE SOME EXPLANATION AS TO THE REASON FOR HIS RESIGNATION. THEREFORE, OPC WISHES TO WRZIIN LOCATE SOME FIRM WHICH WILL BE WILLING TO BACKSTOP XXX ACON'S RESIGNATION, IN THE FORM OF SUPPOSEDLY HIRING ACON. ACON HAS BEEN A RESEARCH ANALYST ON ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL PROBLEMS IN ITALY, AND IT IS FELT THAT PERHAPS, EMPLOYMENT WITH RIA WOULD BE A LOGICAL INEXXXXEEREXKAXXXREASON TO GIVE FOR RESIONING FROM ECA. THE RIA COVER WILL NOT BE UTILIZED FOR ACON'S COVER OVERSEAS. ABOUT ALL THAT WOULD BE MUIRED OF RIA WOUND BE TO ACKNOWLEDGE,

SENSITIVE STORET SECURITY INFORMATION

07433.

14-00000

SECHED
VSECRET TO WASHINGTON FROM NEW YORK

TO ASHCRAFT FOR TRAVIS FROM LEASECURITY INFORMATION CITE NY 2392

CASE 9145.
THIS IS SENSITIVE.
REW-3622 RPT W-8622. LEO CHERNE RPT LED CHERNE
IS THE MAN WE HAVE SET UP AN APPOINTMENT FOR NEXT WEDNESDAY AT 3:30 RPT 3:30 PM SO ROSE APR ROSE BETTER BE HERE IN THIS OFFICE EY 2:30 RPT 2:36 DM.
PLEASE CONFIRM.
GR-62
love advised he will be they at 2:30.
on 23 an.

07434

14-00000

21 Jamary 1952
New Yor
on
S Travis 2268
cret Security Information-Sensitive

TO LEA FROM ASHCRAFT BY SPECIAL SERVICES (TRAVIS) WA 8657
THIS IS SENSITIVE. RE CASE 9145 AND UR NY 0392, ROSE ADVISES THE WILL BE IN YOUR OFFICE BY 2:30 Pll on WEDNESDAY, 28xx 23 JANUARY. THANKS VERY MUCH.

SECRET SECURITY DIFORMATION SENSITIVE
07435

14-00000

MXLLIAM JACER ACE
Background Information
April 6, 1921 in Amsterdam, N
Single
erioan citiboa
Educetion:
Amsterdam High School - Amsterdsa, Hetherlands
St. Louis Waiversity, St. Louis, Missouri - ASTP 6/432/h
Georgetown Foreign Servics School - 2 уго. 6/47-8/48
University of Quicago - H.A. in International Economi Relations in 1951
German, Dutch, French and Italian
"Post-ver Beononis Recovery in the Netherlands and
The Marshall Plan" (received honors)
Employment Record:
June 1950- present International Economist, GS-7, in European Frogren Division of ICA. Mainly concerned with Italian and Trisste economie affatrs. Analysed economic and financial position of Italy in light of ECA aid progren, and handled administration of the aid program itself. Also prepared two, three and four year forecasts designed to show expected economic trends and developments in Italy. These vere included in the ECA congressional presentations..
Oct. 47 June '48 Research analyst in Historical Division of Department of the Army. Engaged in selection of and formulation of reports ca German documents which shed light on the West Europe campaign.
Oct. 46 feb. 47
Archivist in Office of Military Government for Germany, Department of the Army. Served as chief of the Documents Library, collected reports, dispatches, cables, ete and developed an index systen."
Jan. 45 - Aug 45
Assistant to Food and Agriculture Officer with Military Gov's Section of Hg. Twelfth Army Group. Dutics consisted zainly of availability and requirements studies comaceted with food needs of the Gorasn popalation
3000 Perter It,
Hashington, DC.
Woodley 9700
07436

14-00000

SECRET
SECRET TO WASHINGTON FROM NEW YORK
TO ASHCRAFT FOR TRAVIS FROM LEA-SECURITY INFORMATION CITE NY 0470
SENSITIVE
:

THIS IS SENSITIVE.
CASE 9145.

THE MEETING TODAY WITH CHERNE RRT CHERNE WAS COMPLETELY SUCCESSFUL.
WHEN HE GETS BACK TO WASHINGTON, (ROSE IS GOING TO SUBMIT TO US THROUGH YOU ADDITIONAL BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON (ACON RPT ACON WHICH WE WILL TURN OVER TO CHERNE
WE WOULD SUGGEST THAT WHEN ACON MAKES HIS PITCH AT ECA RPTICA AND TELLS THEN THAT HE IS BEING OFFERED A JOB WITH THE RESEARCH INSTITUTE OF AMERICA THAT HE STRESS THE NAME OF LEO CHERNE WHO ACTUALLY WILL BE THE ONLY PERSON WHO WILL BE ABLE TO BACK UP THIS STORY.
مل
Disired with Rose. He will
furnich data to wo
Copy sent to Rent
N
L

07437

14-00000
SECRET
25 January 1952
SECURITY INFORMATION
HEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT:
Backstopping of Cover by the Research Institute of America

1. Pursuant to conversations between Mr. Rose and Mr. Engels of
CIA/ope and Mr. Travis of 00/Contacts, an appointment was made for Mr. Ross to see Mr. Leo Cherne, Executive Secretary of the Research Institute of America, 292 Madison Avenue, New York City, to explore the willingness of Mr. Cherme to backstop the cover story of a proposed agent in training. The appointment was made, and kept, for Wednesday. morning, 23 January 1952 in New York City in the presence of Mr. Clark of the New York branch of the Contacts Division.

2. The proposed story of the agent in question, who had bein employed on the economic research side of ECA specializing in Italy, was that he wished to resign from ECA and take up an offer to be extended to him in civilian employment. Since the Research Institute of America ssamed to fit in naturally with his background and activities in ECA, Mr. Cherne was asked:

a. If he would backstop the agent's story that he was quitting ECA to take employment with the Pesearch Institute of America during his three months period of training with CIA, and

b. Whether he would in fact employ the agent and send him as a representative of the Institute to Italy at the conclusion of his period of training.
Hr. Cherne replied that unfortunately the latter was impossible inasmuch as his company did not send personnel overseas in any capacity. As regards the immediate backstopping of the agent's story, however, Mr. Cherne said that he would be happy to oblige for a period of training only, to wit, three months, after which other cover would have to be sought. Mr. Cherne requested that he be furnished at an early date with more complete information as to what was to be expected of him in his role as a backstop and further stated that he would like to meet the agent personally as soon as could be arranged. This has been communicated to Mr. Engels, the case officer, who will oblige at the earliest opportunity.

3. This case
SECRET
07438

14-00000
SECRET
SECURITY INFORMATION
roferred to for further discussion and/or information an Number C/101.

OD/OP/BAR/TO
25 Jan 52
Distributions
OD/OP (Rose), orig
Contacts 1
Division/00 1
ME- (Engels): 1
OD/OP 2
SD/FE 2

EDWARD A. ROSE
OD/OP

-2-
SECRET

14-00000

Qure
SECRET
Security Information
MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Edward A. Rose
SUBJECT:
7 February 1952
Cover Story for Research Institute of America

1. Mr. Acon, who has his MA in International Economic
Relations from the University of Chicago, has been working for
ECA. He has been hired by the Research Institute of America to
do economic research and writing for their weekly newsletter on
economic subjects having to do with Western Europe. (Mr. Acon
knowgs Dutch, German, French and Italian.) It could be admitted
that he would like eventually to do such writing abroad, but has
not yet found a way.

2. His hiring may be delayed for some time. Mr. Leo
Cherne will be informed when the story is to be used. By that
time, Mr. Acon will have called on Mr. Cherne.

DJW/atp
DANIEL J. WHEALTON
WE-
07439

14-00000

SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
SECRET
lind Security Information
hould be drawn across sheet
INSTRUCTIONS: Offs should be used in the "TO" column. Under each comment a
and each comment numbered to tu respond with the number in the "TO" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient)
before further routing. This Routing and Record Sheet should be returned to Registry.
NO.

WE
X3863

TO
ROOM
NO
DATE
REC'D
FWD'D
OFFICER'S
INITIALS
1.
2.
3.
ODIOP 1704 26 7 Jul 3
Mr. Roso
4 1912 1912
00/Co
Mr Travis.
DATE
7 Fel 52
COMMENTS
ER Bot Wars you please
see that the hew Juli
Office gels this & pass
4.
5.
6.
7.
m LC مه
anayv.
mahally
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
C/10
Сике 9145
13.
14.
15,
:
10-01100-1 U. B. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFIC
FORM NO. 51-10
FEB 1950
SECRET
1.
7.
07440

14-00000
New York Office.
Contact Division
Case 9145
SENSITIVE
13 February 1952
1. When Rose of OPC was in New York on 23 January 1952 to discuss
cover with Mr. Leo Cherne, Executive Secy, of the Research Institute of:
America, Mr. Cherne requested additional information as to what was to
be expected of him in his role as a backstop to the cover being established
for the OPC man. The following information has been forwarded by OPC,
and is quoted below. Mr. Rose requests that you pass this information
on to Mr. Cherne.
a. "Mr. Acon, who has his MA in International Economic Relations
from the University of Chicago, has been working for ECA. He has
been hired by the Research Institute of America to do economic
research and writing for their weekly newsletter on economic
subjects having to do with Western Europe. (Mr. Acon nows Dutch,
German, French and Italian.) It could be admitted that he would
like eventually to do such writing abroad, but has not yet found
a way.
b. "His hiring may be delayed for some time. Mr. Leo Cherne will
be informed when the story is to be used. By that time, Mr. Acon
will have called on Mr. Cherne."
2. We are closing this case. Should further action be required,
we will reopen.
RSTravio/1mp
E. M. ASHCRAFT
SENSITIVE
07440

14-00000
Ο
SECRET
SECRET OO WASHINGTON FROM NEW YORK

TO ASHCRAFT FOR SPECIAL SERVICES (TRAVIS) FROM LEA SECURITY
INFORMATION CITE NY 2315

CASE 9145.

1. WILL YOU TELL ROSE RPT ROSE THAT THE APPOINTMENT WITH LEO CHERNE
RPT LEO CHERNE HAS BEEN SET UP FOR WEDNESDAY, 4 RPT 4 JUNE AT 11:30
RPT 11.30 Α.Μ.
2. PLEASE CONFIRM
GR-58

3dvised - he will
make appointment
"
07441

14-00000

June 1952
Washington R. S. Travis 2268
New York Secret-Security Information

TO LEA FROM ASHCRAFT BY SPECIAL SERVICES (TRAVIS)W 1301
CASE 9145 AND UR NY 2315. (ROSE ADVISES THAT HE WILL KEEP APPOINTMENT WITH CHERNE
AS SET-UP IN YOUR XKXXXXE MESSAGE.

SECRET
-!
07448

14-00000

SECRET
Security Information

Chief, Contact Division, 00
Chief, Cover Division, PLANS/OSO 19 May 1952
Appointments with William A. BARRON, John E. TOULMIE
and Leo CHERNE
References CS-1512 and CS-1337

1. This will confirm Mr. Rose's verbal request that the
Contact Division/00 ask its Boston field office to arrange
appointments for Mr. (Edward Rose of Cover Division, PLANS/со,
to see Mr. William A. Barron, Chairman of the Board, Gillette
Safety Razor Company, and Mr. John E. Toulmin, Senior Vice
President of the First National Bank of Boston, at their con-
venience on Wednesday May 21, 1952. The purpose of the visit
is to explore the willingness of these gentlemen to act as
ostensible donors of funds to support a current operation.

2. This will also confirm Mr. Rose's request that the
New York City field office of the Contact Division/00 arrange
an appointment for Mr. Rose to see lar. Leo Cherne, President
of the Research Institute of America at Ar. Cherne's conven-
ience on Thursday May 22, 1952. Mr. Cherne, who has for some
time been backstopping the activities of an agent in this
country, has apparently expressed willingness to provide
cover for this agent abroad. The purpose of the interview is
to discuss more fully Mr. Cherne's proposal. Cover Division
would be happy to have an 00 field office representative
present to insure continuity.

3. As a result of the above requests, Mr. Barron found
to his regret that he was unable to cooperate with the Agency
at the present time. Mr. Toulmin, on the other hand, was
most cooperative. Mr. Cherne, unfortunately, was out of town.
The New York field office has been asked to try to arrange a
meeting with Mr. Cherne, as outlined above, for Wednesday
afternoon, June 4, 1952.
SECRET
Security Information
07443

14-00000
SECRET
Security Information
Office Memorandum UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
TO : Chief, Contact Division, 08 CS-1387 (Rose)
FROM : Chief, Cover Division, PLANS/S DATE: 6 June 1952
SUBJECT: Field Trip to Interview Leo CHERNE
9141
Reference: CS-1357

1. On Wednesday, June 4, 1952, an interview was arrange d
by the Contact Division, 00, for Mr. Rose of the Cover Division,
PLANS/OSO with Mr. Leo Cherne, President of the Research
Institute of America. The meeting was held at 11:30 am. in
Mr. Charne's office at 292 Madison Avenue, New York City, and
Mr. Rose was accompanied by Mr. Clark of the New York field
office of Contact Division, 00.

2. Mr. Cherne, who is currently (backstopping an operation
within the United States, had expressed the wish to be provided
with some form of letter indicating that the Agency was request-
ing his cooperation, and the purpose of the interview was to
inform Mr. Cherne that this was against Agency policy.

3. This information was accordingly conveyed by Mr. Clark
and Mr. Rose to Mr. Cherne who acospted it with good grace. In
reply to a question by Mr. Rose he indicated that this refusal
would in no way mitigate his desire to be of service to the
Agency.
SECRET
Security Information
07444

14-00000
Office Memorandum UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
TO Files
DATE: 4. MARCH 1954
FROM : Coleman
SUBJECT: Case 1 9145

On 3 March Ormond requested that a meeting be set up for him with Leo Cherne, President of the Research Institute of America. Ormond said that he would not need more than a half an hour. Called Connor who had Bob McCann set up meeting with Cherne for Monday(8th March) at 3:00p.m. Ormond will go to the New York Office at 2:15 on Monday to meet McCann and take off for the meeting. This meeting was requested as a Cat III, and McCann will have to gow out after introduction. Ormond is happy, New York is happy.

07445

14-00000

COLEMAN
SUPPORT
2268
4 MARCH 1954
NEW YORK

SECRET

ROUTINE
TO LEA FOR CONNOR FROM ASHCRAFT BY SUPPORT (COLEMAN)

CASE X88 9145. RE CONNOR/COLEMAN TELECONS OF 3 MARCH, ORMOND WILL BE IN YOUR OFFICE AT 2:15, MONDAY THE 8TH OF MARCH PRIOR TO THE CAT III ΑΡΡΟΙΝΤΜΕΝΤ :

YOU HAVE ARRANGED FOR HIM WIB: LEO CHERNS. THANKS.

SPOR
07446

14-00000
STANDARD FORMO. 64
Office Memorandum SECRET UNITED STATES GOVERNME
TO : Chief, Contact Division, 00 CS-1337 (Ormond)
FROM : Chief, FI/Plans/Cover Division DATE: 4 March 1954
SUBJECT: Requested meeting with Leo Cherne
00/C Case 9115

1.On 3 March 1954, Mr. Coleman of your office was requested
by lir. Ormond to arrange a Category III meeting for him with Leo
Cherne of Research Institute of America, 292 Madison Avenue, New
York City. The identity of an agent and the area in which he will
be stationed will be discussed. On the same date Er. Coleman in-
formed that the appointment had been made for 3:00 PM on 8 Harch
1954. Crmond was requested to arrive at the New York 00/C office
between 2:00 - 2:15 PM to meet Bob cCann who will accompany him to
Cherne's office and make the introduction.

2. Cover Division appreciates the assistance rendered by your office. Mr. Ormond will follow the above instructions.

07447

14-00000
SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR : Chief, Contact Division, 00

FROM : Chief, FI/Plans/Cover Division

SUBJECT : 8 00/C case 9145

1. On 8 March 1954, pursuant to arrangements that had been made
by your office, Bob McCann of your New York office introduced Mr.
Ormond to Mr. Leo Cherne of the Research Institute of America, 292
Madison Avenue, New York City. As a Category III interview had been
requested, Mr. McCann departed soon after the introduction was made.

2. We would like to inform you that Mr. Cherne was cordial and agreed to cooperate with the Agency as requested.

3. On 15 March 1954, Mr. Ormond again met with Mr. Cherne in his
office at New York City to discuss further the operational matter. You. were previously informed of Ormond appointment on 15 March 1954 and while in New York on that day, he visited your New York office.

4. Your assistance in this matter is indeed appreciated by Cover
Division.

07448

14-00000

4
COLEMAN
SUP. DRT
2268
23 March 1954
NEW YORK
FOR CONNOR
SECRET

ROUTTHE
TO LEA/PROH ASHCRAFT BY SUPPORT(COLEMAN)
2499
CASE 9145. FOR YOUR INFORMATION, OLIVER ORHOND WILL BE IN NEW YORK ON 23 MARCH FOR A 10:30 A.. MEETING WITH KIR LEO CHERNE. HE WILL COME TO THE NEW YORK OFFICE MOUT 1 PM FOR THE PURPOSE OF DELIVERING A CHECK TO AMOS BELDEN INRE CASE 8417.

SECRET
BECRET
:
07449

14-00000

17 Jan
R. 8. Travis 2268
SECRET

CONNOR KROM SUPPORT (TRAVIS) NA. 8244
CASE 9145 REOPENED. RAY MILLARD HAS REQUESTED THAT YOU TRY TO SER SET UP APPOINTMENT FOR HIM WITH LEO CHERNE IN CONNECTION WITH THIS CASE
SOHET THE NEXT WERK. PURPOSE OF THE MEETING WILL BE TO SEE CHERNE ABOUT XXX KXTENDING COVER ARRANGEMENT POR ADDITIONAL PERICE OF TIME. REQUEST THAT THIS APPOINTMENT BE COORDINATED WITH ONE REQUESTED FOR MILLARD UNDER CASE 18945 (COLEMAN). THANKS VERY MUCH.

TA
SECRET
07450

14-00000

G
SEC

SECRET
WA CITE NYOR 1191

SUPPORT (TRAVIS) FROM MCCANN

CASE 9145 X 9145

RAY MILLARD X RAY MILLARD HAS APPOINTMENT WITH LEO CHERNE X LED CHERNE ON THURSDAY 6 X 26 JANUARY AT 4 PM X 2 PM. CHERNE'S ADDRESS IS 292 XPADISON AVE.

APPOINTMENT UNDER CASE 18945 X 18945 IS FOR SAME DAY AT 3 PM X 3 PM.
SUGGEST RAY MILLARD DROP BY THIS OFFICE AT 1:30 PM ON 26 X 26 JANUARY X AT 1:30 PM ON 26 JANUARY, BEFORE HIS MEETING WITH CHERNE.
PLEASE CONFIRM.

20
Melland adorned an I will make aupt
au of content fire

074451

14-00000

New Yark
R. 8. Travis 2268
SECRET
ERICANN FROM SUPPORT (TRAVISWA 8456
CASES 9145 AND 18945. REUR ED NYOR 1191. MILLARD WILL MAKE APPOINTMENTS AS
SET UP BY YOU. HE WILL CHECK INDO THE OFFICE BY 1:00 PM ON THE 26TH. THANKS VERY MUCH
SECRET
07458

14-00000

WA CITE NYOR 1351
SECRET
Q
SUPPORT (TRAVIS) FROM MCCANN

CASE 9145 X 9145

MILLARD HAD SUCCESSFUL MEETING WITH LEO CHERNE WHO AGREED TO PROPOSITION

MILLARD WILL DRAFT A LETTER FOR CHERNE WHICH WILL BE FORWARDED TO
5 PN '58"
07453

14-00000

SECHET
CS-1337 (Millard) 4 9145-RST
2 February 1956

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contact Division, 00

SUBJECT : Research Institute of America

1. On 26 January 1956, Mr. Millard of this office,
together with Er. Robert LicCann, New York 00/C Office, inter-
viewed Mr. Leo Cherne of the above captioned organization.

2. The results of this meeting were extremely satis-
factory for our purposes and we are deeply appreciative of
Er. McCann's assistance in this matter.

3. Your cooperation is appreciated.
