104-10308-10054
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ACTION: J (SAS NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT: 10
INFO: CDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, 2/ 3, CNE 2, 8/с а

SECRET 2211522
OPIN DIF INFO PRETY HAVE PRAH WAHD ФАТДИХА90 8012
RYBAT TYPIC CALL
122657
1. AHLEB 29 MET (IN ROTT BY VAREBOLD AND ARLES 1 OF 20 AFR.
WE EXPLAINED THAT HE DID NOT RECRUIT IDEN A AS PLAWNED BECAUSE
IDEN B TOLD HIM IDEN A IS NOW BEING HATCHED CLOSELY DUE HIS RECENT
ATTEMPTS TO RESIGN FROM AILITARY. A 29 HAD NO FREE TINE TO GRE
AND FAKE OVU ASSESSMENT IDEN A SITUATION DUE SERIOUS ILLHESS FOTHER
AND HIS REQUIRED PRESENCE ABOARD SHIP DURING REPAIRS
2. TUFO IN REF OBTAINED BY AHLEB 29 FRON IDEN C. REQUEST
TRACES. SHE IS FORMER BIRL FRIEND OF AFLEB 29 AND PARENTS ARE
HEIGHBORS. SHE VERY ACTIVE IN RESISTANCE BROUP WHOSE NARE SOUNDS
LIKE "FRENTE LIBERACION NACIONAL FRENTE LIBERACION ESCAMBRAY.
A 29 SEES HER IN HAVANA EACH TIME HOME ALTHOUGH SHE SPENDS CIRCA
TUO OF EVERY THREE VEEKS WITH GRANDPARENT IN FATANZAS
3. A 29 CERTAIN IDEN C VOULD ACCEPT RECRUITHENT BY HIM TO
WORK WITH ODYOKE. WARKBOLD SEEING HIN AGAIN EVENING 23 AFR
REQUEST OPIE PERMISSION PRIOR NEXT MEETING WITH A 29 TO INSTRUCT
HIN TO RECRUIT IDEN C. TRAIN AND GIVE HER SVAND ACCOWNODATION
ADDRESS PREVIOUSLY FLANHED FOR IDEN A
SECRET
GROUP

13-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

ACTION: /SAS (SAS NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT: 1035, 22 APR LIG)
INFO: DOP ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/EE 3, C/E 2, S/C 2

BECRET 2211522
PIE DIR INFO PRITY WAVE FRAN HARS CITE HABU 3695
RYBAT TYPIC CALL
MAGU 3695.
N22624
YDEN A: ANTONIO CONCEPCION.
IDEN B: RANUEL JUSTO HUINOS, BROTHER-IN-LAW OF ANTONIO
CONCEPCION. SEE PREVIOUS INFO ON KUINOS FROM ANLEB 29.
IDEN C: NORMA FLORES DOB CIRCA 39, RESIDES WITH MOTHER AND
FATHER AT CALLE NO. 18332, ENTRE PRIMERA Y SEGUNDA, RESIDENCIAL
FONTERREY, SAN MIGUEL DEL PADRON, GUARABACOA, HABANA RESIGNED
FRON JOB AS TEACHER IN UNIVERSITY OF VILLANOVA IN HAVANA IN 62)
MAD PBPRIME VISA PRIOR BLOCKADE BUT BLOCKADE NULLIFIED CHANCE TO
LEAVE. FATHER FORMER SERGEANT IN BATISTA ARMY NOW GARDENER.
SISTER, NANCY FLORES, DOB CIRCA 36, IS OFFICE CLERK IN LA ISLA DE
CUBA DEPARTMENT STORE, HAS APPLIED FOR PBPRIME VISA. GRANDFATHER
AND UNCLE LIVE IN HATARZAS.
SECRE

GROUP 1
EXCI UDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN-
