104-10185-10244 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

TO BE OPENED, BY ADDRESSEE ONLY

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH Division

ATTENTION : Mr. Leonard Libby, WH/SA/CI

THRU : Mr.Walter Richardson) 

FROM : Deputy Director of Security (Investigations
and Operational Support)

SUBJECT : COVERT SITE 
Apartment G 32
Summit Hills Apartments.
5500 16th Street..
Silver Spring, Maryland
#353 598

26 JUN 1964

1. Reference is made to your memorandum dated 19 May 1964 to the
Chief, Safehouse Procurement. Branch, Office of Logistics. This meno-
randum requested the procurement of a safehouse to be occupied by a
Latin American. The safehouse was to be located in the Bethesda, Mary-
land area.

2. This will confirm verbal security approval provided the Safe-
house Procurement Branch by this office for the use of the Subject.
Covert Site. Forwarded herewith is a report dated 18 June 1964 of the
security survey conducted on the Subject premises. Your attention is
directed to Section VI on Page 2 of this report which lists possible
security hazards. This is brought to your attention so that you will
be able to take appropriate action to prevent any compromise of activi-
ties at the Subject Covert Site.

3. For your information a search of Office of Security Indices
in the names of the individuals listed in the attached report has
failed to reveal ary additional noteworthy or derogatory information
identifiable with them.

4. Under no circumstar.ces may classified material be stored in
the Subject Covert Site. In addition, the Sucject Covert Site may not
be loaned to or utilized by another component of the Agency without the
prior concurrence of the Central Cover Starf, the Safehouse Procurement.
Branch, Crice of Logistics and this office.

SECRET

5. It is requested that the attached report be returned to this
office in a sealed envelope marked, "To Be Opened By Addressee Only"
when your office has no further need for it.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

Victor R. White

Attachment:
Report dated 18 June 1964.

cc: Central Cover Staff
Safehouse Procurement Branch

SECRET

ECRET

OFFICE OF SECURITY
Support Division

REPORT
OF
INVESTIGATION

CONSISTING OF
REPORTS

SEORET

FILE NO. 983 303

SECRET

DATE 18 June 1961

SYNOPSIS

I.

The SUPJECT SITE is located in the east
wing on the ground Hoor of an apartment building
at 5500 16th Street The building is
locateduir a large portment development, known
a's Summ. Hills Apart Apartmen and is located a
short distence off olith-Street) mein 24
Washington thoroughfare end Route Fast-West highway
Route 24 Transportatio and personal n al ser service
facilities are readily variable. Telephon
service is on an individual subscriber ba: is.
Fire and police protection are adequate. Only
possible. Security bazara notes SUBJECT SITE
is tae proximity of SUBJECT SITE'S windows to
nos able penetration cromatutomobiles marked in
nt par lot and people located at
ground level on the outside of the SUBJECT SITE.
Biorach real data on the facet CLAAS apartments
are contained in
and
16 יf ו
the report.

SEUL!
DESCRIPTION OF AREA

THE SUBJECT SITE building is located ana
modern.. middle-class apartment development kiniwה וו
24 Gumit His Apartments w its which is locate cated alongחנים ה
therou hare of Sashinston. D.C .C., Sta Street and
Route 10 Fast-West highway The The SUBJECT SITE building
is located n Lontgomery County, Maryland. To the south
of the SUBJECT SITE Slate is another apertment building
known as th Street 1. Summit Hills Apartments) 24
which is Borated approximately Yit Yitty cards soute of the
SUBJECT SITE building. Sth Street)
and SUBJECT SITE LULidin is located a large parking,
lot. Access to tais persing lot. Arich is parallel
to the eastw wing on the SURJECT SITE BUILDING, can be
10 by
hi
Sained from either proceeding
proceeding in a westerts direction or from Loth a
a Ariced highway, which loss entrance to the parkin
either East-West has outreet 524
Lot top west and north
sound yehicles any top sou
of SUBJECT SITE Baridragare additiorel apartment buildings
the cast of SUBJECT SITE building
Taing is laid out in
2
is
rainar it
n
yand porain reas To the
rect SUBJECT SITE cui sth Street)
the form of across with wings extending north, south.
east, and west. SUBIECT SITE is located in the extreme
southeast corner of the east wing of SURJECT SITE Building
D. C. Transit bus service is available alen East-Ves24
Chighway andhat the parking lot located in close proximity
to SUBJECTITE is a bus stop for D.C. Transit. This
parking lot is located directly forte of the east wing
of SURJECT SITE buildin... Tavicab service is also
available. Complete personal services are located
erprosimately mil mile away in Silver Spring, Maryland,
which can be reached by traveli
eling cast ce Route 10
buls of parking area for automobiles surrounds the SUBJECT
SITE building.

1. SCRIPTION OF SITE

No interior ipsection of the SUBIECT SITE was
conducted. STILET SITE may te enteree tarot
by entro denne etrace 10mtred midway..
fon the mouth side of the casting ot the SURJECT SITE bailding

SECHET
383 598

SUBJECT SITE is slocated on the ground level of the
SUBJECT SITE building. Do elevators are located at
the rear of the lobby and a sirway to all floors of
SUBJECT SITE buildi
cated at the extreme cast
end of the east wing.

-:
IYCOMMUNICATION SYSTEM

Telephone service is provided by Chesapeake and
Potomac Telephone Company on an individual subscriber basis.

V FIRE AND POLICE PROTECTION

Police protection is afforded by the Montromery
County Folice Department which has substation located on
Georgia Avenue in Silver Sprint, Maryland. Fire protection
is afforded by the Silver Soring Fire Department.

VI. POSSIBLE SECURITY HAZARDS

SUBJECT SITE is located on the ground floor of
SUBJECT SITE building (below tround level) and, thus,
SUBJECT SITE'S windows are st round level. Visual and
technical penetration may be possitie from the land area
surroundings, SUBJECT SITE building and from the parking
lot located approximately fifteen yards to the south of
SUBJECT SITE 'ualdin and SUBJECT SITE. No other security
hazards were noted and the closest ulding to SUEJECT SITE
building 1 approximately fifty yards awaj.

VII. OUTLINE OF EXHIBITS

Exhibit 1 diásram depicting SUBJECT SITE
building and area surrounding it.
Eshabit B - dia ram of round level floor of
SUBJECT SITE buildire.

VIII.
SICGRAPHICAL DA ΓΑ
Apartment G10.

This apartment is occupied by one Gichael R.
SCHRIFR born 1922 in Maryland and married to Joan. SCHRIERS Csc
a. been employed ter - vears as an investigator by Paul Paul
M. SACHS. 520 Connecttet Avenue, W.
NW.Jwho he is further turtl

383 598

desertbed by credit sources as an attorney specializing
in investmen
Additioned int information indicates
that (SCHRIER) previously resided as Perry Place and was
previously employed ty The WIGWAM) General Gig) shop. No
detrimental credit Laformation, police information, or
House Committee on Un-American Activities records were
reflected in the name of (SCHRIER or his wife.

Apartment 118 (located directly over SUBJECT SITE)

This apartment to the residence of (Esther JOLLES)
white female born born ornCz C2 December 1892 in Russia and her
daughter lored JOLLES) white female for whom two dates
of birtipare listed: 17 May Dand March 1917. 17 born
New York Other JOLLES) is the widow of Joseph 1. JOLLES)
whom Montgomery Count: Health Department records reflected
died of natural causes on 23 June-1960, MrJLLES) was
formerly the president of the Maryland Belt Parkway 08
Development) Ine.
Silver Spring, Maryland, and the Northod
Portal Construction Company) A previous address of 50508
15th Street. NW is reflected lected tor for(Joseph (Jos 1. JCLLES)
Mildred JULES) and Esther JCLES)

Immigration and Naturalization records reflected
received a certificate of citizenship
through derivative means on
1961) Sther JOLLE
is not a naturalized citizen but received her certificate
of citizenship through fer tether. Immigration and
Naturalization fale.. derivative number (A-102705) alien
number (121:577200 is located in Baltimore, Maryland. Esther
JULLES is employed as a homemaker. Credit sources reflect
a credit rating ranong trom poor to to satisfactory in the
name of

Joseph Dand Esther JELLES

Mildred JOLLFS) daughter of Esther JOLLES) is
employed as an analyst by the Quartermaster Corps. Depart-
ment of the Army. Pentagon. An additional address of
Secord and D Streets
plso reflected for Guldred
JCLLES)roloyment. Mildred JOLLES game to Sashington
from New York or 31 Jugt 1 194 is Lingle, and has no
dependents. Credit sources reflect poor to satisfactory
credit rating on the name of Mildred JULLES record
for either Mildred JOLLES) or Esther JOLLES) as reflected
an appropriate polices arencies and
at appropriate police agencies and the House Committee on
ESC lez
