14-00000
104-10295-10001
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

29 August 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Summary of S/W Training and Issuance of Materials.
AGENT: AMLASH/1
PLACE : Paris, France
DATE : 17-22 August 1962
TRAINER: Richard M. Fallucci, TPE C/O.

1. AMLASH/1 was instructed in S/W techniques by the under-
signed in a Paris Station safehouse on 17 and 18 August, and was
given an S/W review in the final briefing session held in the hotel
room of Wallace A. Growery (Madrid Station C/O) on 22 August.
Instruction was given in the use of carbon writing system No. 15136
and in the use of liquid developer system No. 56638. The "scorch"
method of development was also demonstrated to A/l as an alternate
system. A total of five hours was devoted to this instruction.

2. A/1, who was recruited a short time prior to coming to
Paris, was introduced to the idea of using S/W by the undersigned
during discussions held in Copenhagen. Although for security
considerations, he was skeptical at first about using such a means
of communication, he was without undue effort convinced that any
productive relationship depended upon his being able to communicate
with his C/O on a regular basis through the medium of S/W letters
sent through normal mail channels. It was apparent from his early
questions that he was unfamiliar with the principles of S/W and clandes-
tine communications in general. After further talks in Paris with
Growery on 16 Angust, A/1 was fully prepared to accept the concept
of S/W communications, and arrangements were made for this instruction
to begin the following day.

3. The first training session on 17 August lasted a little
more than two hours, and was devoted to an explanation of the S/a
system of communication, including careful instruction in the
preparation of a letter containing S/W. A/1 also prepared an S/
letter of his own under the supervision of the undersigned. He
seemed to grasp readily the principles of the preparation of an S/W

14-00000

message and experienced only a little difficulty at first in remember-
ing all the steps in sequence necessary for the preparation of an S/W
message. He was generally attentive to the instruction given. How-
ever, in keeping with his temperment, he was a little impatient
during the preparation of the S/W message itself upon the cover
letter. At the end of this session, he demonstrated that he remembered
the basic steps in a satisfactory manner, particularly considering
that it was his first day in S/W instruction.

4. The second period of instruction took place in the same
safehouse, lasting about two hours. This session was devoted to a
review of the S/N procedures and the preparation by A/l of another
practice S/W letter. Following this, A/1 was instructed in the
development of S/W messages, using the liquid developer No. 56638
The scorch system of development was also demonstrated. A/1 was
impressed by the simplicity of the liquid developer and the immediate
reaction which it produced. The undersigned developed one message;
then 4/1 was allowed to prepare the developer from its dry pill form
and to develop a second practice S/W message for himself. Following
the period devoted to S/W development, a general review of S/W
communications was held, the basic points apparently being well-fixed
in A/1's mind.

5. During the final formal meeting with A/1 on 22 August
with Growery and the undersigned participating, the latter gave A/1
a general review of all the S/A procedures which were to be used
in his contact with KUBARK. He also was provided with the following
items:

A. Two sheets of S/W carbon paper (No. 15136)
B. Forty-seven pills of developer ( No. 56638)
C. One tablet of writing paper provided by TSD and
known to be compatible with the carbon sheets.
D. 3 No. 2 pencils of French manufacture.
E. One ball-point pen with water-resistant ink.
F. Two accomodation addresses: one in Madrid for
regular contact; one in New York City for rapid
emergency contact (see attached S/W data sheet).
Appropriate indicators (see S/W data sheet)
G.

It is noted that A/1 did not have a secure accomodation address in
PBRUMEN to give us at this time. He was told, however, that it was
imperative that he provide one for us by S/W letter within two weeks
of his return to PBRUMEN. This he stated he would do.

6. During the last S/W review, A/1 was shown a photograph
of one of his practice messages which he had prepared. He was quite
interested in seeing this, which served to illustrate a number of the
training points which had been covered during previous instruction.

-2-

14-00000

Generally, A/1 was an interested pupil and it is believed that he
will be able to carry out the instructions in a proper manner. He
is quite security conscious, a factor which it is believed, will add
to his attempts to seek perfection in his S/W correspondence and
in the secure storage of his S/W materials when not in use. It is
also known that A/1 practiced his S/W techniques in his hotel room
after leaving the 22 August meeting. This is known because he had
an additional question to ask us at a brief meeting on 23 August.

7. It should also be noted that the TSD technician who
developed A/l's practice letters recommends that for best results,
all letters from A/1 be subjected to ammonia fuming before immersion
in the developer.

Richard M. Factucan
Richard M. Fallucci

Attachments:
Agent S/W Record
Form #H-55900

-3-

14-00000

REPORT OF S/W TRAINING, PARIS.
29 Quy 962 62

14-00000

AGENT S/W RECORD
Date 29 August 1962

1. Agent Cryptonym: AMLASH/1
2. S supplies issued to the Agent (date and quantity):
2 sheets of carbon 5/1 paper #15136 and 48 pills of developer
#56638 both issued on 22 August 1962.
3. Cover correspondence to the agent will be in Spanish and handritten
or typed; from the agent will be printed or typewritten (in Spanish).
4. Location assigned for placement of 3/4 text: 8/4 text will be placed
on the face of the cover letter; agent has, however, been instructed
to check both sides of letters received for S/W. Letters from the
agent on face of cover text.
5. Accommodation addresses:
To be supplied by agent in first S/W letter he sends (this to be
by 15 September 1952 at the latest.)

Accommodation addresses for letters from the agent:
Regular accommodation address:
Rapid/Emergency accommodation address:
Agents letters to be signed "Ramon".
6. Re-suppl arrangements:
c
Senorita Maria Dolores Gomez
Apartado 1231
Madrid, Spain

Mr. Humphre 3. Poncavil
P. O. Box 892
General Post Office
NYC 1, N. Y.

If carbens lost: Agent writes cover letter to Madrid address in
normal manner. Absence of S/t message indicates loss of carbons and
Agent is to expect next letter he receives to be a re-supply of
carbons (in the form of the letter itself).

If developer lost: Agent so indicates in letter to Madrid (in 5/4):
re-supply will take place through one of the three Dead Drops which
Agent has been told to locate and report soonest by S/W. Identity of
Drop utilized and date loaded to be conveyed to Agent through 5/
message developed by "scorch" method... see below.

14-00000

7. Required indicatore:
A. For presence of 3/5 on letters to the agent: All letters to agent
will contain S/.
B. To indicate loss of writing materials: Carton sheets: Agent
writes to Madrid, letter with no S/4. Developer: Agent writes
in 5/ and so indicates.

C. Indicate carton re-supply by mail: Upon indication of loss of
carton sheets (see above), preferably the next letter sent to
Agent will be a carion sheet. In any caso agent understands
that any cover letter containing the word "fincs" (Spanish for
farm) has teen written on a carton sheet, which he is then to use
Tor S/W correspondence as needed.
8. Optional Indicatore: Any letter received by Agent containing the word
"hacienda" in the cover letter is understood to indicate that the
S/ message contained therein is to be developed by the "scorch"
system.

Danger or control indicators:
Letters from Agent: Any word, mark, phrase, etc., after the
Spanish word "FDI" at the end of the S/ message indicates
agent is under control.

Letters to the Agent: Acknowledgement of Agent's control indicator
is to be made by duplicating his "control indicator" in the
next S/ message to him.

-2-

14-00000
AGENT S/W RECORD
Date 29 August 1962

1. Agent Cryptonym: AMLASH/1
2. Si supplies issued to the igent (date and quantity):
2 sheets of carbon 3/4 paper #15136 and 48 pills of developer
#56638 both issued on 22 August 1952.
3. Cover correspondence to the agent will be in Spanish and handwritten
or typed from the agent will be printed or typewritten (in Spanish).
4. Location assigned for placement of S/4 text: 5/ text will be placed
on the face of the cover letter; agent has, however, been instructed
to check both sides of lotters received for S/. Letters from the
agent on face of cover text.
5. AcoCHERcdation addresses:
e
To be supplied by agent in first S/W letter he sends (this to be
by 15 September 1962 at the latest.)

Accommodation addresses for letters from the agent:
Regular accommodation address:
Rapid/Emergency accommodation address:
Senorita Maria Dolores Gomez
Apartado 12318
Madrid, Spain

Mr. Humphrey R. Boncavil
P. O. Box 892
General Post Office
NYC 1, N. Y.
:

Agents letters to be signed "Ramon".
6. Re-suppl arrangements:
C
If carbons lost: Agent writes cover letter to Madrid address in
normal manner. Absence of S/H message indicates loss of carbons and
Agent is to expect next letter he receives to be a re-supply of
carbons (in the form of the letter itself).

If developer lost: Agent so indicates in letter to Madrid (in S/s);
re-supply will take place through one of the three Dead Drops which
Agent has been told to locate and report soonest by S/W. Identity of
Drop utilized and date loaded to be conveyed to Agent through S/W
message developed by "scorch" method... see below.

14-00000

7. Eequired indicators:
A. For presence of 8/4 on letters to the agent: All letters to agent
will contain 3/4.
2. To indicate loss of writing materiale: Carton sheets: Agent
writes to Madrid, letter with no 34. Developer: Agent writes
in S/ and so Indicates.

C. Indicate car'on re-supply by mail: Upon indication of loss of
carton sheeta (see above), preferably the next letter sent to
Agent will de a carton sheet. In any case agent understands
that any cover letter containing the word "finca" (Spanish for
fare: has been written on a carton sheet, which he is then to use
Tor S/t correspondence as needed.
8. Optional indicators: Any letter received by Agent containing the word
"hacienda" in the cover letter is understood to indicate that the
5/ message contained therein is to be developed by the "scorch"
syaten.

Danger or control indicators:
Letters from Agent: Any word, mark, phrase, etc., after the
Spanish word "FIN" at the end of the S/W message indicates
agent is under control.

Letters to the Agent: Acknowledgement of Agent's control indicator
is to be made by duplicating his "control indicator" in the
next 5/4 message to him.

-2-
