14-00000
104-10172-10112

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

HATERIAL CEVTENED AT CTS HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT CENTER ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEINERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLEIE: HALPERIN MAURICE HYMAN.
20%-128561
(VOL. VIL)
:
INCLUSIVE DATES: 1 JAN 62- 76

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROON:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DICUMENTS.

DATE DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED
Amay
23 244 237AY
REVINNED BY
(PRINT NAME)
JOHANNA SOUTH
SIGNATURE OF
REVIEWING OFFICIALL
"
NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FRONT TILLS FILE.
HALPERIN, Maurice Hyman
201-128561

14-00000

Vol. VII

THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS 201-128561 (HALPERIN)

FBI (Boston) 2/6/62; File 100-25501 & 65-14303

FBI (Boston) 1/25/63; Files as above

FBI (Washington) 2/26/63; re HALPERIN

FBI (Washington) 2/26/63

FBI (Boston) 1/13/64; File #BS 100-25501 & 65-14303

FBI (Washington) 1/18/65
"
FBI (Boston) 3/25/66; File #100-31726 & 100-424134
re Edity Evelyn HALPERIN

FBI (Washington) 6/14/66; File # (S) 65-14303

FBI (Boston) 12/15/66

FBI (Washington) 10/10/67

FBI (Washington) 4/30/68

FBI (Boston) 7/14/72 re Maurice

FBI (Boston) 7/14/72 re Edith

14-00000

EUR, Karice yean 44
200: 3 5 1906
03: Berta, Massachusetts
ifo! Si Frisch HALFERI
STMASSOT
GUCY Case
25361
TROLLIOT

Subject is a U.3. citisen and a former 053 amployee.
Subject has been closely associated with Martha Dold and
ALTEK. in Mexico, sad be handled care of
Staria baleese affairs. As of April 1959, saj balieved
to be in thecov.

FIS INFOT 10. 33
// dossier (Also osa LOHAYPOAL CARS files.)
-erted Subject.la reterm
on a Christmas card (1) an Art Ca
stre
remar, alene, Caba; first time that sunt et les rivin
זייןs on a prating card.
:
201-128561

14-00000
AG8

OUTGOING MESSAGE

GIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
03
ACP
12
2
100
TPE
U
DCI
0
C00.0
20
PAGS
L

OMF
0
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET.
MER

STAFF
NANDLING INDICATOR
DATE TIME GROUP
جية
1321302
DIRECTOR
683288
CONF: C/13
INFO: FILE DDOS PDO/DD OGC CASS
0
きりょ。
DISSEM BY: 45
0
0
RETURN TO PER CA
EYES ONLY
0.
#26.0.)
TO:
YEURB
LONDON INFO OTTAWA.۲

RYBAT PLMHBLANKET Y

REF: LONDON 74209 IN 971297) (RELAYED OTTAWAY

1. PER REFERENCE REQUEST FOR TRACES ON MAURICE HYMAN

HALPERIN (201-128561), WE ARE FORWARDING VIA TM FIVE 1960
NEWSPAPER CLIPPINGS AND A RECENT ARTICLE FROM THE SIMON FRABSER UNI-
VERSITY, BRITISH COLUMBIA, ALUMNI MAGAZINE FOR PASSAGE TO JAGUAR.
THIS INFORMATION IS PROVIDED PURSUANT TO OUR SERVICE TO SERVICE`
ARRANGEMENT FOR THE EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION ON PERSONS OF COUNTER-
INTELLIGENCE INTEREST.Y

2. MAURICE HALPERIN HAS TWO CHILDREN: DAVID CARLOS BORN S MAY
1937 IN OKLAHOMA CITY AND JUDITH YVONNE BORN 3 SEPT 1931 IN BOSTON.
(SOURCE: DBD-43144, 25 MAR 1966) LNERGO APPROVES PASSING TO
JAGUAR. AGENCY RECORDS ON MORTON HALPERIN DO NOT REFLECT ANY RELA-
TIONSHIP WITH MAURICE HALPERIN.. HALPERIN IS A COMMON NAME.
:

3. PUBLICATIONS SINCE 1957: "GROWTH AND CRISIS IN THE LATIN
AMERICAN ECONOMY: 1961, "CONFERENCIAS SOBRE GEOGRAFIA ECONOMICA"
1964, "HACIA UN NUEVO SISTEMA DE PLANIFICACION Y DIRECCION..

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
P&L DISSEM
Ha
RECORD COPY
SUTHENTICATIONS OFFICER

RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS

14-00000
400

OMF D
OUTGOING MESSAGE
USION
000.0
SECRET
MERSAGE HANDLING PENCATOR

STAFF
CONF:
INFO: FILE
0
0
BC
0
DATE-TMS GROUP
CTE
DIRECTOR
883288
PAGES
2
2
0
IDER
DISSEM BY:
0
NO INDER
0
astuen.t0
PER
0 PASS
B

ECONOMICAS EN LA UNION SOVIETICA" 1964, AND "THE RISE AND DECLINE OF
FIDEL CASTRO - AN ESSAY IN CONTEMPORARY HISTORY", UNIVERSITY OF
CALIFORNIA PRESS-Y
:
4. THE FOLLOWING IS FROM FHABOVE AND NEEDS THEIR CONCURRENCE TO
PASS TO JAGUAR. MAURICE HALPERIN IS CURRENTLY TEACHING AT SIMON
FRASER UNIVERSITY IN BRITISH COLUMBIA AND EXPECTS THAT THE UNIVERSITY
WILL EXTEND HIS TEACHING APPOINTMENT TO AUGUST 1977. HALPERIN TOLD
FHABOVE THAT HE AND HIS WIFE TOURED ISRAEL, ITALY, GREECE, SPAIN, AND
ENGLAND IN THE SUMMER OF 1975. HE IS CURRENTLY WORKING ON THE SECOND
VOLUME OF HIS BOOK ON CUBA. HE LEFT THE IMPRESSION WITH FHABOVE THAT
WHEN IT IS FINISHED HE WILL BEGIN WORK ON HIS AUTOBIOGRAPHY. ESOURCE:
OCOA-19102、22 JAN 7614

5. FOR OTTAWA: JAGUAR HAS REQUESTED TRACES ON MAURICE HALPERIN.
PLS NOTIFY LONDON IF FHABOVE APPROVES PASSING INFO FROM PARA FOUR
ABOVE TO JAGUAR.Y

b. FILE: 73-6-46/3. E2 IMPDET.Η

DATE: 12 JUL
ORIG: PATSY HOLEY
UNIT: CI/OG
EXT: 1117
-

DDO/AGC A. E. GOLDIN CIN DRAFT
EUR/BC

E/FA/K WPET PU.II

CC/E
CLASSIFICATION
COORDINATIS OFFICERS
REPRODUCTIO BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRO.. JITED

AC/CI/OG
AUTHENTICATING PICES
E2 IMPDET

14-00000

Ex-OSS Official Works
For Reds in Moscow

BY VICTOR LASKY
North American Neeswaper Aliance
A former Bosten University
professor, who once was a high
official in the OSS, has turned
up in Moscow working for the
Soviet government,
The professor. Dr. Maurice
H. Halperin, Ned this country
seven years ago after an in-
quiry into his Communist back-
groünd.

According to the State De
partment, he probably is ad-
vising Soviet officials on Latin
American affairs, an area in
which he is expert.-
Prof. Halperin was suspended
by Boston. Untiersity in 1953
after he refused, en constitu-
tional grounds, to tell a Senate
subcommittee whether he had
ever been a Communist Party
member.

According to the State De-
partment, he had previously
been involved in Soviet espio.
nage in wartime Washington.
He had been named by Eliza
beth Terril Bentley, admitted
former spy courier, as one of
her sources of supply among
Government officials.

Intrigue in Mexico
MAURICE H. HALPERIN
AP Photo
Dr. Halperin. It was obvious
on the basis of the information
contained in his dossier that
the State Department had been
keeping an eye on the former
professor's movements for some.
time.

Fired in Oklahoma

And since 1953. Dr. Halperin, From 1931 to 1941. Dr. Hal-
has been involved in still more perin-a Harvard University
Intrigue as an "exile" in Mexi-graduate-had been a professor
co. It was, he, for exariple, at the University of Oklahoma.
who assisted two suspected According to the record, it was
spies in their flight from Mex-in this period that he directed
Ico to Czechoslovakia to avoid Communist activities in Okla-
United States extradition pro-homa and, on repeated visits
to Mexico, conferred with Mex-
ceedings.
On July 15, 1960. Dr. Hal-ican Red leaders. On one visit
perin and his wife. Edith, apto Cuba in 1933, he and other
peared at the United States leftwingers had been arrested
Embassy in Moscow to present by Cuban authorities and ex-
their United States passports pelled from the country..
for renewal.
In 1941, much of this was
All this was disclosed in a disclosed in an investigation
State Department memoran-conducted by an Oklahoma
Cum prepared for Senator State legislative committee.
Keating. Republican of New The committee. Investigating
York, who has been urging the subversive activities in Okla
has sense homa, produced information
ported legislation empowering that in 1940. Dr. Halperin had
the department to deny pass- cashed a check for $438 drawn
ports to active participants in on the Bank of Foreign Trade
in Moscow. As a result, Dr.
Soviet skullduggery.
The memorandum, citing Halperin was dismissed from
"cases where passports have the University of Oklahoma..
had to be issued to known Despite this record. Dr. Hal-
Communists, devoted consid-perin managed to enter Gor-
rable attention to the case of See HALPERIN, Paze A-6
WASH DC
STAR
31 Aug 60
HALPERIN
questes concerning
sesed Communal activi
ひこさ
In November, 2014. Hal-
pecia and his wide, without
aving the unwwrsity, lett
thew home in the middle of thei
but never to the Turansi
un Mexico her devame
members of the American Com-
marist group in Meanra
Le most ACGM memers,
Lhe lisiperins did well. Ther
-והיה בני אא ted in an
Tadabbled a real estate.
and ebained jobs. Dr Halperin.
was employed by the Mexican
coreeninent as a Gnancial con-
shant and lus were taught in
American School Founda-
Hey also became friendle
Alfred K. Stern and his
jwife, the former Martha Dodd.
daushter of a former United
States Ambassador ta Germany
The fact the Stems had been
Lashested in Sariet espionage
jcame out with the arrest in
New York of Jack Soble, a So-
fries asent. To avoid being ex-
radited to the United States
to testify before a special grand
jury on their associations with
See and "the double agent
Bves Morros," the Sterns fled
Czechoslovakia in July, 1957.
Dr. Halperin, described as
dens "intimately involved in
heur plans for escape," had
sained atrline reservations
or the Sterns under ether
Continued From First Pace names. As a result, the Mexi
ernment service. Employed as can government was consider-1
chief of the Latin Americanmms his case for deportation.
division of the Omce of Stra- Ca October 13, 1938, the Hal-
tecic Services (the OSS was perus left Mexica, having
then the United States Civilian odiarned plane reservations in
Intelligence-Gathering Agency), the names of other persons,
he later was transferred to the
State Department. In doin
agencies, according to the
Elizabeth Bentley testimony, he
transmitted confidential docu-
ments to a Soviet spy ring.

Linked to Spy Ring
In Russia Since 1938
The State Department mem-
wandum concludes:
"We received information:
shortly after Halperin's de-j:
parture from Mexico that helt
was employed in Moscow tv
In 1949, he became head of the USSR. This was condemedit
the Latin American resionalisa July 15, 1950, when the
students section at Boston Uni-Halperins appeared, at the
versity's. College of Liberal American Embassy in Moscow
and presented their United
Arts
A year later, he was first States passports for renewal.
publicly identified as a member "Halperin stated that he
of a Soviet spy ring. This came had been in the USSR since
about when Vice President ember, 1958, and that he is
Nixon, then a California Con-employed by the Soviet Acad-
gressman, made known a topjemy of Sciences where he is!
secret memorandum on esiding research. relating to
Dionase transmitted by Inderdeveloped countries.
Director J. Edgar Hoover toi in will be recalled that Hab
the White House on Novem-perin is something of an au-
ber 8. 1945.
then on Latin American
In March, 1953. In Boston'sasins Our informatica in-
Federal Building. Dr. Halperin Scates that this probabir 13
repeatedly invoked the Fifth the field in which he is work-
Amendment when in a hearing at the presente
ing conducted by the Senate The Soviet Academy of
Internal Security Subcommit-Sciences is directly subordinate
teemhe refused to reply to ta the Council of Ministers."

14-00000
(
Washington toet
1 Scft. 1960

Tharine, Soph. 1.1960 THE WASHINGTON POST
Halperin, U. S. Ex-Aide,
Is Now a Soviet Official

The State Department say's
that Maurice H. Halperin, a
former United States Govern-
ment omcial linked by Senate
Investigators to Soviet esp!.
onage activities, apparently is
serving now as a Latin-Amer
ican adviser to the Russians.
Halperin was head of the
Latin-American Division of
the Office of Strategic Serv-
lees during the latter part of
World War II and later an as-
sociate professor at Boston
University, Before the war, he
had been on the faculty of
the University of Oklahoma.
In 1934 he was dismissed by
Boston University after Sen-
ate Investigators received tes-
timony linking him to a Soviet
apy ring and he refused to
answer a question as to
whether he was a Communist.
Associated Press
The latest information on
Halperin's whereabouts is MAURICE 11. HALPERIN
contained in a report compiled belleved Soviet employe
by the State Department
about persons to whom it has
American Embassy In Mexico
City, where he had gone after
being dismissed by Boston
University, and used it to
leave Mexico on Oct. 13, 1958.
The State Department said
that shortly after Halperin
and his wife departed from
Mexico it received Informa
tion that he was employed in
Moscow by the Soviet Union.
This was confirmed on July
15,1950, when the Halperins
appeared at the American
Embassy in Moscow and pre
sented their U. S passports
for renewal," the Depart
ment's report said, adding:
"Halperin stated that he
had been in the U.S.S.R. since
December, 1958, and that he is
employed by the U.S.S.R.
Academy of Sciences where
he is doing research in the
foreign field, specially, relat
ing to undeveloped countries."
The Departinent recalled
that Halperin was something
of an authority on Latin-
American affairs and said,
been compelled to issue pass- deny passports to Communists
ports under a 1953 decision of or to other persons because of "Our Information Indicates
the Supreme Court.
their pelitical beliefs.
that this probably is the field
The Court held that the De- After the ruling. Halperin in which he is working at the
partment lacks authority to applied for a passport at the present time."

14-00000

1
4
ד
FORMER U. S. AIDE
AT WORK IN SOVIET
Ex-Boston U. Professor Was
in O.S.S, in World War It
1
By JACK KAIMOND
Special to The New York Times
WASHINGTON, Aug. 31
The State Department has
disclosed that a former United
States Intelligence official
in Moscow working for the 90
viet Government
He is Dr. Maurice Halperin
a former Boston Universi
professor who was head of the
Latin American Division of the
Office.olf Strategic Services
during World War II.
Dr. Halperin was dismissed
from Boston University in 1930
after he refused to say whether
be he was at Communist. He das
been linked in testimony berore
Senato, Investigators to à So
viet spy ring.
The State Department's.
Clasura a contained in
memorandum la support of a
proposed Aw to deny passports
to persons supporting interna
tional communism,
The Supreme Court ruled in
1958 that passports could not
be denied to Communists or
others because of their political
beilets-
Dr. Halperin and his wife
Edith were then in Mexico
City, the State Department
noted. They had been linked
to the escape behind the Iron
Curtain of Alfred
and
Martha Dodd Stern, who were
under Federal indictmisat for
espionage
After the Supreme Court ru
ing, the Halperins applied to
the United States Embassy in
Continne on Page 7 Colum
Iser 60
FORMER U. S. AIDE |
AT WORK IN SOVIET
Continued From Page 1, Cal 1.

Mexico City for passports and
left Mexico Oct. 13. 1955. At
the time, the State Department
noted, they were about to de
deported from Mexico for Cem-
munist activities. :..
Reports that Dr. Halperin
was working for the Sorter!
Government in Moscow were
confirmed last July 15, the
State Department memorandum
went on, when he and his wife
appeared at the embassy to re
new their passports.
Embassy officials reported
that they had been told by Dr.
Halperin that he and his wife
had been in the Soviet Union
sance December, 1938, and that:
he was working for the Soviet
Academy of Sciences doing!
research in the foreign field
especially relating to under
developed countries."
The State Department, r
calling that Dr. Halperin was
an authority on Latin-American
affairs, added that our mor
mation indicates that this prod-
ably is the field in which he is
working at the present time."
State Department officials
have repeatedly called attention
to the Soviet trade and culturali
offensive in Latin America,
Referring to Dr.: Haleprin's
employment by the Soviet
Academy, the State Depart-
ment abserved that it was di-
rectly subordinate to the Soviet
Council of Ministers.
Requested by Keating
:
11
:

The memorindura was p
pared at the request of Senaton
Nenneth B. Keating. Reputivan
et New. York He and Senator
Thomas J. David Demrat of
Connecticut, as
a
etit that seeks to restre some
of the State Departmeat's
authority to dea
Senator Kesung, who entered
the memorandum in The টো
gressional Record of Aug.
expressed.regret at the time
that his bill was not likely to
be passed in this sessina of
Congress. President Eserier
and State Department officials
have backed the purpose of
the measure,
Meanwhile,
Representative
Francis E. Walter, Democrat
Pennsylvania and chairma
of the Committee on Un-Amerd
can Activity, said he had or
dered a month-long preliminary
Investigation into the case of
two missing employes of the
National Security Agency.
The two employes of the topl
secret coding agency, Beroem
F. Mitchell and William H.!
Martin, are alleged to home
taken valuable secrets to the
Soviet Union.
Kepresentative Waiter sald
that he understood that one of
the missing man had madel
raquiries in their agency about
the U.2 reconnaissance plane
fight over the Soviet Union
before it took place on May L
Mr. Walter said that he res
convinced that the Soviet had
bad advance knowledge of the
ghi Francis Gary Posters!
the U-2 pilot, was downed in
the Soviet Union and subse
quently sentenced to tea years
detention,

Refused to Appear
BOSTON, Aug. 31-Dr. Hal
pera was officially dismissed
from the faculty of Boston
University on Jan. 6, 1954, Не
had refused a summons to ap
pear before a university com
mittee of review to discuss his
case
Dr. Harold C. Case, president
of the university, telephoned
Dr. Halperin in Mexico City
offering to pay his expenses
to Besten and return. But the
professor declined. He ha
been chairman of the univer
sity's Latin-American regional
studies

14-00000

STAR
Halperin Denies Giving
Reds Advice on Latins
5 Sept 60
twally at the sareed hour. Hlished it will be available to the
cared the comin
State Department and any body
ment, on which he decisned to rise ting to purchase
United States Imbesty
"wms to me that the deared to comment on thei
State Depeithiol and Settor Matement or on Mt. Halperin
Keane tre scraped the bote status it did say ho appeared!
MOSCOW, Sept. 3 (AP-Legie Services, an intelligence at the embassy in July and,
asard to have his American;
with this stale red herrine.
Maurice H. Halperta forner organization.
there is nothus mvaierious passport renewed. The request
United States Government u After the war. Mr Halperta er dus aut my brine in granted, an sumbaaryonial
cial who now lives in Moscow got a job with Beton a Macow Slice my arrival Isand.
yesterday accused the @tate Deveruty as a professor. He Dot nave tied inn United States
partment of lesuing a "deliber this job in 1953 because here in returns and my
I am not
ate and malicious antorionfused to tell congressional in stary and employer. I sin nos
about ماء غلطtúe bare.
In a typewritten slasament bren a member of the Amen met any more than Van Ca
Sunan American pianist
Mr. Halperin sald:
can Communist Party:
"Thare is nothing mysterious The bald, mustached 34-aren he performs in a surein
or dubious about my being in year-old Mr. Halperin was to ment-owned concert hall.
investigators whether he ever had words for the Soviet covera
Moscow
I am a visiting cated Sunday in a Maneew
professor at the USBR Academy apartment house by a news
of Sciences and not the first man and was asked to com
American to be associated with: ment on the State Departo
Last week Benator Keatina.
Republican of New York, read,
into the Congressional Record:
ment's document.
Derlines to Elaborate
352. RAJUR prijodal 20300 1K 1
a State Department document wchnical dimeuries" in mor-
thes the story until Monday.
which said Mr. Halperin now.
in Moscou and is "working for.
Lha Boviet government
Headed 085s Unh
i
The newaman apparently wa
"I am a visiting professor a
the USSR Academy of Sciences
sed not the first American to
be asociated with as some
of our leadina scientats can
My appointment and
my Soviet visa expurs in July..
1241, as in Unimed States Em
bussy here very well snows
"My teaching and reunirce
activities invoive
theoretical
cut of while trying to tele-pro.es related to the e
phone 'the story
Mr. Halperin first deelired to
The document said there n'admit the newsman into his
apartment, bus agreed to meet
wers Indications Mr. Halperin
is giving the Soviet govern him later in the lobby of a
ment advice on Latin-American nearby hotel where he prom-
alfala During World War II, leed to give a written slave
Mr. Halperin was head of the ment
Latin American division of the The story
to the
United States Office of Stra.
a deliberate and ma
licious distorsion.

"Specifically, I am making a
study of the Loun-American.
economy 1943 מנד to the c
of 958. When ray boek is pub-

14-00000

Halperin Say's
Reds Not Not
Employ Him
MOSCOW, Sept. (UPD)
Maurice H. Haberin today
thraniol a reported State De
partment statement that he is
working as an aiser to the!
Soviet government sa Latin
American affairs as a delib
crate and malis dastur
tion.

In a statement to reputers
Halperin said he is a professor
associated with the Academy
of Sciences of the USSR, work
ing on a book on Latia Amer!
ican economies, and be ex
plained the Americia authori
ties Anow all about it

(A State Department decu
ment in Washington list week
said Halperin, a smer Bos-
ton University professor and
World War II intelligence spe
cialist ca Latin American
fairs, was working for the So
viet government

Sen.. Kenneth & Neating
(R-NV had the document
entered in the Congressional
Record)

"It seems to me that the
State Department and Senator
Keating are sweeping the bot
tom of the barrel to ceme up!
with this red herring Hal-
perin said

"There is nothing mysteri
ous ar dabious about my being
In Moscow. Since my arrival
I have filed two U. S ince
tax returns, listing ay salary
and employer.

"I am not working for the
Soviet government any more
than Van Cliburn when he
performed in a governmen:-
owned concert hall be con
tinued

"I am a visiting professor
In the USSR Academy of
Sciences and not the Erst
American to be associated
with it. For the State of De
partment to say that I am an
adviser to the Russians a
Latin American affairs i
deliberate and malicious dis
tortion.

"Specifically. I am making
a study of the Latin American
economy from 1943 to the
crisis of ISS
Washington is
5. Aile 196

14-00000

i
Foto, or cr a major role in Simon Fraser
Pole Scence wessor Dr. Alaunce Halpern's nearly
Severy yers
wes chance that competed him, to seek employment
ענת כהן ונתוand Unesy of Mieuco. It was chance that
חנה נירים a treeyes in Moscow... It was chance
ז הם או בתo teach santon Cuba. And it was chance
גבס brought a to Simon Fraser seven years ago.

la fact, fetuneראש חננאל פ its capricious influence over
his Ste even before Dr. Hapan was bom.

הרנס ום סיבה הפות Canada," he says, "My father
salad tram, Liverpool to the New World at the turn of the cen
ry. wah Monreal is his desinsson. However, he decided
"Boston כן רם כסה
This was a rather fortune circumstance over which I had
סלרסס כ" since Afanmaid at the time was still a provincial
לויסle Boston was "ececols, a great centre of culture
and leaming and it as spenad tacikaos were available to
คง"
Among those botes which he made use of were the
Easton Latin Scrocia secondary school which boasts
such luminarias as Benjamin Franklin and Ralph Waldo Emer
הם וגסang is abu-andard University.

Ha completed his post work in Paris at the Sor
banna which, at that time, was are most prestigious university
b the world and the mahad on my way of life and
thinking was a permanent o०९."

While attending the Sarcome, Dame Fortune stepped in
and "ives appointed to lacuity as a fleader in North
Amencen Civilization Even Dough I came from Harvard, the
level of competence and sccrushcabon of the French stu
don's was much higher and i had to work very hard to koup
"הבלן with כט

After completing his doctorale, Dr. Halperin joined the
faculty at ina Unwarsly a Catanema and found that mid-
western state to be her country. Boston and Paris
ware much closely related ran were Boston and Oklahoma.":

However, chance intervened to rescue him from what
cou'd have been a nuribe of natterent years in a inen small
and remote universay on the Amencan Prairies, tuming them
Lao years spent in "an cassan cuture.."

Copia explains
"was cing the Depression and jobs were scarce, so
the universay attracted a number of bright teachers and
researchers whose test chestemt not have been Okla
hana

"And when you have a group of people the that, in addition
to the opportunity of incrs and learning to appreciato
Lho utues of mone Amerit med u was something that
is for the rest of myte"
The Second Wore Wy remur Dr. Hupenn's sojoum
2: 70 Uznersay of Owained the Glice of
"COMMENT", Dec 75 issue
(alumni..magazine of
Simon Fraser University
in British Colombia.)

Maurice Halperin, Simon Fraser's old