1060003
104-10072-10289
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
ROUTING AND RECORD SPEET

PRIOR TO FILING
1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap
and forward to RID
INSTRUCTIONS"
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records
significant action taken or comments requir-
ing preservation.
FROM:
TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file no, and title shown are not proper,
insert proper file no. below and forward
document to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

RID/
RID/IN
TO: ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE
COMMENTS
TO
ROOM
NO.
DATE
RECEIVED
OFFICER'S
INITIALS
FORWARDED
1.
SAS/ESC
Apriler SRC Cozy Detached
101 ob
2.
SA/MON FI
10 FR 1954
Elin V. Burt
3.
4.
PRDI
6.
SAS/S0/HH
Feb 2017 wigs
SAS/SO/HH.
7.
WH/SA/Scenty
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
RID/FI
3413,
22226 671 17/3/64
03

MICROFILMED
APR 9 1964
DOC. MICRO. SER.
FILE TITLE
422
7-8; Ikegey bith
3 cup AMCAK DE NAMビハスンレバー2
3 SEPA
its Catizace. Riccispaper
tips. Beleive the fee out
ci
HR thuy
Lijpenyeler
preate hie
2. 24. S. Celiz.
fie hit that
arrecht
us called for. Notarial
106
cleared. I've asked WAVE for
Hographic chats en vider
unchal ce palearg en regiud.
Radi
TRACE
REQUEST
DATE MICROFILMED
-ORM
163
610a
PREVIOUS
FUDON
2
ز
14781
FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)
ABSTRACT
INDEX
DOCUMENT DA7291-746416
DATE
2Apr/964
DOCUMENT NUMBER
UFGA

SECRET
D
1407
i
64
414

14-00000
DISPATCH
Chief, Special Affairs Staff
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
MICROFILMED
APR 9 1961
Chief of Station, JMWAVE
ART&
DOC MICRO.SER.
PRO
POSED
XX
PROCESSING
ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED
HEADQUARTERS DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
ABSTRACT
ACCOM
PLISHED
TYPIC/OPERATIONAL
MICROFILM
201-746416
Special Activities Report on JMWAVE'S Relationship with AMCARBON-1
EQUIRED REFERENCES
ACTION REQUIRED:
REFERENCES
1.
:
Paragraph 10
A. WAVE 8981, dated 24 September 1962
B. WAVE 9169, dated 28 September 1962
C. WAVE 9343, dated 2 October 1962
D. DIR 40975, dated 6 October 1962
E. UFGA 14417, dated 4 March 1964
INTRODUCTION. In Reference E, JMWAVE forwarded a review
of the nature of its relationship with AMCARBON-2. This review
indicates that the relationship with AMCARBON-2 evolved from that
action which was taken in September 1962 to insure that a security
breach would not occur as a result of an investigation which was
being carried out by the Identity 1 relative to the fact that the
establishment of the Identity 2 was being kept from the YOBELT
South Campus as a result of security restrictions which were in some
way related to JMDUSK. While the relationship with AMCARBON-2
stemmed from the remedial action which had been taken in a crisis
situation, the establishment of a working relationship with the
Identity 3 was an objective which JMWAVE had always hoped to obtain.
As a matter of fact, in Reference A, the recommendation was made
that JMWAVE be given approval to contact the major South Florida
news media in an attempt to work out a relationship with these news
media which would insure that they did not turn the publicity
spotlight on those KUBARK activities in South Florida which might
come to their attention. Thus, when a relationship was established
with AMCARBON-2, it was carefully cultivated in order that JMWAVE
might be able to use this contact at the Ldentity 3 as a means of
achieving the objective of having a relationship with the Identity 3,
which would simultaneously insure the security of JMWAVE's operations
and give JMWAVE an outlet into the press which could be used for
surfacing certain select propaganda items. In the period October to
Attachments: USC
A
cette'd in RID/AN
Five Newspaper Clippings
B Identities.
Distribution:
3
Chief, SAS, w/atts.
INDEX

(CONTINUED)
201-746416
19 March 64
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
DATE TYPED
X
1 CROSS REFERENCE TO
DATE DISPATCHED
APR 2 1964
UFGA-14781
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
Fachad
6011:
durA
la
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
201-
3. AMCARBON 1'S JOURNALISTIC CAREER. AMCARBON-1 originally
started to work for the Identity 3 in 1957 on the City Desk,
and subsequently advanced from this assignment to an assignment
which entailed covering major political developments in Florida.
At a later date, AMCARBON-1 became a feature writer for the
Identity 3. Then in July or August 1962, AMCARBON-1 was made
the Identity 4. This assignment was considered to be a significant
19933
CLASSIFICATION
PAGE NO.
ια
USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
SECRET
XX
2.
CONTIN.JED
6.4
جمال

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
SECRET
UFGA-14781
December 1962, all of JMWAVE's business with the Identity 3
was handled via AMCARBON-2. In mid-December 1962, AMCARBON-2
made the suggestion that he introduce REUTEMAN to AMCARBON-1
n order that there be a backup contact, in the event that
MCARBON-2 were out of town or unavailable at such times as
EUTEMAN might require assistance from the Identity 3. REUTEMAN
greed to AMCARBON-2's suggestion, and, as a result, AMCARBON-2
hosted a luncheon on 12 December 1962 at the Miami Club in the
Hotel Columbus, Miami, Florida, at which AMCARBON-2 introduced
IMCARBON-1 to REUTEMAN. As a result of this initial meeting on
12 December 1962, an operational relationship has developed with
AMCARBON-1, and it is believed that this relationship contributes
In view of
to the fulfillment of the over-all JMWAVE mission.
this, a special activities report is being submitted to cover the
nature of JMWAVE's relationship with AMCARBON-1 during the
period December 1962 to March 1964.

2. FRAME OF REFERENCE FOR JMWAVE'S RELATIONSHIP WITH AMCARBON-1
When AMCARBON-2 introduced AMCARBON-1 to REUTEMAN, AMCARBON-2
reviewed the ground rules under which he had been cooperating
with REUTEMAN. This review was conducted for AMCARBON-1's
benefit, in order that he might clearly understand the frame of
reference which should prevail in his relationships with REUTEMAN.
In this review, AMCARBON-2 pointed out that it was the policy
of the Identity 3 that it would take no action which would
purposely, embarrass KUBARK or its South Florida operations. As
a result, if any embarrassing items relative to KUBARK's operations
in South Florida did come to the attention of the Identity 3, this
material would be brought to REUTEMAN's immediate attention.
AMCARBON-2 made it clear to AMCARBON-1 that such items should be
discussed with REUTEMAN in a frank manner. In addition, AMCARBON-2
made the point that, after an item was discussed, AMCARBON-1
should follow REUTEMAN's guidance relative to how any particularly
embarrassing item might be handled by the Identity 3, so that it
would not expose KUBARK operations and, at the same time, would
not jeopardize the journalistic reputation of the Identity 3.
In addition, AMCARBON-2 pointed out that, if AMCARBON-1 brought
a potentially embarrassing item to REUTEMAN's attention and
remedial action on the matter was not taken by REUTEMAN within
a reasonable period of time, then the Identity 3 would feel free
AMCARBON-2 pointed
to expose any ineptness on KUBARK's part.
out that in return for this cooperation from the Identity 3,
REUTEMAN had agreed that he would be available for contact by
telephone or periodic personal meetings at which AMCARBON-1
and AMCARBON-2 could discuss broad trends and developments in
Latin American affairs. AMCARBON-2 advised AMCARBON--1 that this
arrangement did not mean that AMCARBON-1 could expect to obtain
The point was also
any classified information from REUTEMAN.
made that AMCARBON-I should not press for the obtaining of
classified information, but he should be alert to steering tips
which REUTEMAN might furnish him on fast-breaking news stories.
AMCARBON-1 indicated that he understood the frame of reference
which had been outlined by AMCARBON-2. This frame of reference
has prevailed throughout JMWAVE's relationship with AMCARBON-1
during the period December 1962 to March 1964.
!
AMCARBON--1 originally
3. AMCARBON-1'S JOURNALISTIC CAREER.
started to work for the Identity 3 in 1957 on the City Desk,
and subsequently advanced from this assignment to an assignment
which entailed covering major political developments in Florida.
At a later date, AMCARBON-1 became a feature writer for the
Identity 3. Then in July or August 1962, AMCARBON-1 was made
the Identity 4. This assignment was considered to be a significant
3α
USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
XX
PAGE NO.
2.
CONTINUED
6.4
414

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
SECRET
UFGA-14781
promotion for AMCARBON-1, and it reflected confidence in him by
the Identity 3 management. AMCARBON-l is by no means an expert
on Latin America, but he is developing his knowledge on the area
and, at the moment, he gives every indication of wanting to be a
long-term Latin American specialist. QDELF has been questioned
about AMCARBON-1, and he has indicated that AMCARBON-1 is regarded
in the journalistic trade as an extremely likeable fellow who has
a keen mind but who lacks experience in depth on Latin American
affairs. It is QDELF's opinion that given an appropriate lapse
of time, AMCARBON-1 will develop into one of the leading Latin
American specialists in U.S. journalistic circles. AMCARBON-1
has a working command of Spanish, and he is constantly attempting
to improve his language fluency. It is REUTEMAN's opinion that
AMCARBON-1 has developed rapidly as a Latin American specialist,
and he will continue to grow in this field. Thus, he is a contact
who should be developed and harnessed for exploitation, bearing
in mind that he does have long-term potential.

4. AMCARBON-1'S CONTACTS AND SOURCES. In keeping with the
traditional pattern of source protection which is common to
newspapermen, intelligence officers and law enforcement officers,
AMCARBON-1 attempts to guard the true identity of all of his
sources. On the other hand, when pressed, AMCARBON-l has identified
some of his sources to REUTEMAN, in order that meaningful evaluations
could be made of that information which AMCAREON-1 had passed to
KUBARK. As a result of these occasional witting identifications
of his sources, and, as a result of general conversations with
AMCARBON-1, REUTEMAN has learned that AMCARBON-1's sources include
the following persons:
a. Luis FERNANDEZ Rocha (201-316766), secretary general
of the DRE.
b. Manolo RAY Rivero (201-239298), chief of JURE.

Carlos FODD y Lobo (201-264141) of the defunct
d. AMBIDDY-1 (201-267437)
C.
Havana Times.^^
e. Aureliano SANCHEZ Arango (201-019245), leader of the AAA.
f. Edmund LEAHY of the Washington News Bureau. AMCARBON-1
regards this source as being particularly interesting, in view
of the fact that LEAHY's daughter is a secretary in the office of
Attorney General Robert KENNEDY.
g. Frank FIORINI (201-242256), free-lance pilot and
adventurer..
M
h. Eduardo SUAREZ Riva, public relations man for the MRR.

i. Luis MUNOZ Marin, governor of Puerto Rico.
j. Juan BOSCH Gavino (201-103272), former president of
the Dominican Republic.
k. Charles KEELY of the Copley Wire Service.
1. Jorge VOLSKY Kraisler (201-352252), an employee of ||
USIA in Miami. AMCARBON-1 is well aware of the fact that VOLSKY
is a defacto stringer for Tad SZULC of the New York Times, but this
does not deter AMCARBON-1 from attempting to exploit VOLSKY as a
source of information.

FORM
5-60 53α USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
(40)
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
XX
CONTINUED
PAGE NO.
39
8

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
ULABBI
SECRET
UFGA-14781
5.
OPERATIONAL SUPPORT,
The
On occasion, AMCARBON-l is used
to carry out certain operational support tasks. In such instances,
AMCARBON-1 makes his inquiries or carries out the required action
within the context of his normal journalistic activities.
use of AMCARBON-1 for operational support tasks enables JMWAVE to
harness the investigative facilities of the Identity 3. Several
examples of how AMCARBON-1 has been used in operational support
tasks are outlined below:
a.
201-356702
After
In March 1963, Andrew' *ORDONO
Andrew ORDONO Camps.
Camps, PPOB 30 September 1914, Gibara, Cuba, A 12 837 617, arrived
The details of this
in Miami and was given routine CAC processing.
processing are contained in MIAM-0085, dated 12 March 1963.
being released by CAC, ORDONO was interviewed by the Identity 3, and
In view of this story, JMWAVE
a sensational story was developed.
This effort was not productive,
tried to locate ORDONO for debriefing.
thus AMCARBON-1 was asked to locate ORDONO. AMCARBON-1 did locate
See WAVE--6307, dated 25 March 1963, for
ORDONO in Houston, Texas.
details.
b. Discrediting Carlos BANDIN of the MRR Splinter Group.
In UFGW-2555, dated 13 September 1963, Headquarters suggested that
JMWAVE might be able to discredit Carlos BANDIN Cruz (201-309611)
of the MRR Splinter group as a result of BANDIN's overinflated claims
relative to his faction invading Cuba. Headquarters' interest in
discrediting BANDIN was also stimulated by the fact that BANDIN'S
irresponsible publicity stunts were causing problems for AMBIDDY-1.
As a result of Headquarters' interest in this matter, REUTEMAN had
a luncheon session with AMCARBON-1 on 24 September 1963, at which
AMCARBON-1 was advised that the BANDIN faction of the MRR was less
than accurate in its claims relative to its activities in Cuba.
In view of this, REUTEMAN suggested that the Identity 3 might want
to soft peddle any future war communiques which the BANDIN faction
might release. AMCARBON-1 stated that, in view of REUTEMAN'S
comments, the Identity 3 would not only soft peddle, but would
ignore the BANDIN faction in the future. Once BANDIN was discredited
As a result
with AMCARBON-1, the word was soon leaked by AMCARBON-1 to other
newspapermen that BANDIN was not a reliable source.
of this action, the BANDIN group has received minimal media coverage
in South Florida since September 1963.
6. OPERATIONAL INTELLIGENCE. In the period February 1963
to February 1964, AMCARBON-1 has furnished JMWAVE with operational
intelligence as outlined below:
a.
In WAVE 4836, dated 21 February 1963, AMCARBON-1
reported that AMBEND-1 was back in Miami and was the object of
a great deal of press interest in view of AMBEND-1's release from
AMCARBON-1 also indicated that AMBEND-1 would
a Havana prison.
probably be a knowledgeable source on the current activities of the
UR in Cuba. This operational intelligence was most helpful in
terms of keeping JMWAVE informed on AMBEND-1's movements.
developments revealed that AMCARBON-1 could not contact AMBEND-1,
and thus AMBEND-1's return to the United States did not cause the
publicity stir that was initially anticipated.
Subsequent

b. In WAVE 6176, dated 22 March 1963, AMCARBON-1
The intent of this
reported that the Identity 3 was attempting to research a full
feature article on the Bay of Pigs invasion.
article was to furnish a recapitulation of the entire tactical
situation. In this connection, AMCARBON-1 pointed out that he was
CLASSIFICATION
PAGE NO.
FORM
5-60
(40)
53α UBE PREVIOUS EDITION.
SECRET
XX
4.
CONTINUED

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
SECRET
UFGA-14781
thinking about exposing the role of Miami attorney Alex E. CARLSON,
residing 145 Curtiss Parkway, Miami Springs, Florida, in the
Bay of Pigs operation. AMCARBON-1 stated that, if CARLSON were
of any current interest to REUTEMAN, then the Identity 3 would
soft peddle the CARLSON angle, REUTEMAN advised AMCARBON-1 that
he had no interest in CARLSON but knew of him and was of the
opinion that CARLSON was a sound and honest attorney. The receipt
of this operational intelligence enabled JMWAVE to brief CARLSON
on the Identity 3's over-all interest in the role that CARLSON had
played in the Bay of Pigs invasion. This briefing, in turn,
enabled CARLSON to more adequately prepare himself for a meeting
with AMCARBON-1. While AMCARBON-1 did attempt to pursue this
Bay of Pigs story, he never did put anything into print as the story
was overtaken by other developments before AMCARBON-1 could finish
his research.
NO
c. In WAVE 004, dated 9 July 1963, AMCARBON-1 advised
JMWAVE that Mr. Trevor ARMBRISTER, an associate editor for the
Saturday Evening Post, was in Miami during July 1963 attempting
to research a story regarding the possibility that strategic
missiles were hidden in Cuban caves. This information enabled
JMWAVE to keep Headquarters informed on sensational-type articles
which might be appearing relative to Soviet missiles in Cuba.

d., In WAVE 4701, dated 20 September 1963, AMCARBON-1
gave JMWAVE his resume of the discussions which he had with
This
AMBIDDY-1 at the Miami Playboy Club on 19 September 1963.
information was useful in obtaining an insight into what AMBIDDY-1
was telling the press.

e. In WAVE 5661, dated 10 October 1963, AMCARBON-1
reported on a discussion that he had had on 10 October 1963 with
AMBIDDY-1's public relations man. This operational intelligence
was useful in terms of keeping KUBARK advised as to what AMBIDDY-1's
representatives were telling the outside world about their
operational activities.

f. In WAVE 6910, dated 31 October 1963, AMCARBON-1
informed JMWAVE about the flood of telephone calls which were
being received at the Identity 3 relative to so-called KUBARK
vessels which were located in South Florida waters. This
information alerted JMWAVE to the fact that press scrutiny was
going to be directed toward the Identity 5. Armed with this warn-
ing, JMWAVE was able to take action which minimized the publicity
repercussions from a renewed press interest in the Identity 5.
g. In WAVE 7671, dated 16 November 1963, AMCARBON-1
reported to JMWAVE the fact that he had received a letter from
Peru which contained an interesting operational lead to one
Carlos MONTALVANO in Puno, Peru. This lead was examined by JMWAVE,
This examination revealed
Headquarters and the Lima Station.
that the letter was written by a crackpot; thus, there was no
real operational potential in this lead.
This incident did underscore
the fact that AMCARBON-1 is willing to bring potentially significant
operational leads to JMWAVE's attention.

h. In WAVE 1614, dated 6 February 1964, AMCARBON-1
advised JMWAVE that he had received numerous telephone calls
indicating that Armando Andres GUIROLA Forte, who had defected
from a Cuban fishing vessel might be an individual who had previously
been seen in Miami during November or December 1963. At the same
time, AMCARBON-1 pointed out that he was suspicious and thought
that these telephone calls indicated that GUIROLA was not a bona
fide defector, but was either a GOC agent or a KUBARK plant, who
was being used as a means of creating an incident which would
embarrass the GOC, as a result of their fishing boats penetrating
:
5-60
(40)
FORM 53α
USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
XX
CONTINUED
PAGE NO.
167
5.
54.

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
SECRET
UFGA-14781
United States territorial waters.
REUTEMAN advised AMCARBON-1
that KUBARK had played no role in mounting a provocation operation
against the GOC. At the same time, REUTEMAN pointed out that
it was highly unlikely that GUIROLA was a GOC agent. As a result
of this conversation, arrangements were made for JMWAVE to check
out certain aspects of the GUIROLA story. At the same time,
AMCARBON-1 was prevailed upon not to write a story which might
lead the public to speculate on whether GUIROLA was an agent or a
plant in a propaganda play designed to embarrass the GOC.
7.
PROPAGANDA OUTLET. AMCARBON-1 has been used successfully,
during the period covered by this report, as a propaganda outlet
through which items of interest to KUBARK could be surfaced in
the free world press. Examples of how AMCARBON-1 has been harnessed
in this field are outlined below:

a. AMCRAB-1. The AMCRAB-1 defection story originally
surfaced in the Miami area on 13 October 1963 via the Diario de
las Americas, which played up an API release from Montevideo.
The API Montevideo story highlighted AMCRAB-1's information
relative to GOC activities in Uruguay. The story in the Diario
de las Americas had an extremely limited impact on Spanish readers
in the Miami area. As a result, it was decided to do a series
of feature stories on AMCRAB-1, pointing up the fact that AMCRAB-1
was typical of the veterans of the Granma expedition, who felt
they had been betrayed by CASTRO and had been relegated to positions
of obscurity once the revolution had put CASTRO in power. AMCARBON-1
was briefed in detail on the AMCRAB-1 story, and he was given an
opportunity to debrief AMCRAB-1 urder controlled conditions in a
JMWAVE safehouse. After completing his debriefing, A.MCARBON-1
wrote a series of feature articles on AMCRAB-1. The first article
in the series received front page headline play. The series of
articles on AMCRAB-1 were well written, and they provided an
excellent peg for JMWAVE to mount a replay operation via other
propaganda assets. AMCARBON-l's story on AMCRAB-1 was picked up
by UPI, API and others, and it was played throughout Latin America.
The details of this surfacing can be found in WAVE 5826, dated
14 October 1963; WAVE 6092, dated 19 October 1963; and, WAVE 6174,
dated 21 October 1963.

b. Charles GRIFFIN Shrimp Boat Story. On 26 February 1964,
JMWAVE learned that when Mr. Charles GRIFFIN's sons went to Cuba
to reclaim the hijacked shrimp boat, JOHNNY REB, they found that
select items were missing from the boat when it was turned over
to them. It was believed that this information would make a good
human interest story which JMWAVE assets could use to counter GOC
propaganda claims that United States officials had stolen items
from the Cuban fishing boats which had violated United States
territorial waters. In view of this opinion, a steering tip was
given to AMCARBON-1 to have the Identity 3 representative in
Key West interview Mr. GRIFFIN. This interview was carried out,
and an article outlining the points which were of interest to
JMWAVE was published in the 27 February 1964 edition of the
Identity 3.
c. LAYC Story. The March 1964 LAYC meeting in Santiago,
Chile, was not receiving appropriate coverage in the South Florida
newspapers; as a result, REUTEMAN contacted AMCARBON-1 on 5 March
1964 and suggested that the LAYC meeting was a story which the
Identity 3 should pursue. AMCARBON-1 was grateful for this steering
tip, and he assigned the task of preparing the story on the LAYC
to one of the members of his staff. A story on the LAYC was
subsequently published in the 6 March 1964 edition of the Identity 3.
(COMMENT: Copies of the articles cited in subparagraphs a through
c above are attached for Headquarters information.)
5-60
FORM 53α
USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
(40)
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
XX
CONTINUED
PAGE NO.
6.

14-00000
DISPATCп
8. POSITIVE INTELLIGENCE. Attempts have been made to
obtain disseminable positive intelligence from AMCARBON-1 during
the period covered by this report. This attempt has been generally
unsuccessful, in that AMCARBON-1 does not have a great number of
contacts in Latin America who would give him access to worthwhile
intelligence appreciably in advance of the information appearing
in the overt press. As a result, AMCARBON-l is usually not aware of in;
inside developments in any Latin American country; consequently,
he is not a worthwhile source of positive intelligence. As a
matter of fact, AMCARBON-1 is less valuable as a source of positive
intelligence than most journalists. This is attributable solely
to his lack of long-standing contacts in the Latin American political
scene. It is believed that AMCARBON-1 will ultimately overcome
this shortcoming; thus, we will continue to attempt to harness him for
the collection of positive intelligence.
Our
9. COMMENT. In the period covered by this report, AMCARBON-1
has been found to be a straight-forward individual who is honest,
cooperative and who understands the need for security.
relationship also indicates that AMCARBON-1 is an accurate reporter
of that information which he passes to KUBARK. In view of this,
JMWAVE plans to continue to harness AMCARBON-1 in the same manner
that he has been used in the past. It is believed that our rela-
tionship with AMCARBON-1 enhances our ability to conduct our
operational mission in a secure manner. In addition, this relation-
ship tends to minimize the possibility that JMWAVE might have diffi-
culties with the media outlets in the South Florida area. As a
result of our continuing relationship with AMCARBON-1, a special
activities report will be forwarded at appropriate intervals.
10. It is requested that a 201 number be assigned AMCARBON-1
and that JMWAVE be advised of the number.

END OF DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
FORM
5-60
(40)
53α USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
SECRE
701-746416
CONTINUED
PAGE NO.
7.
1.-
6.

14-00000
S-B
THE MAN HERALD Friday, March 6, 1064
Latin Youth Group in Chile
Organized by a Cuban Red
By DON BOHNING'
Of Our Lalin America Stall
A small, but significant
Communist-dominated,
Cuban-inspired Latin youth
group convenes Monday in
Santiago, Chile.
About 400 representatives
of Latin American youth
organizations, for the most
part Communist oriented, are
expected to attend the second
Latin American Youth Con-
gress.
It has an interesting.
anatomy. And whether by
design or accident, both its
timing and locale have polit
ical significance
Chile is one of five Latin
countries which still
maintains diplomatic rela-..
tions with Cuba. It also is
considered the one most like
ly to vote itself Communist.
Presidential elections will.
be held in September, a lead
ing contender is Salvador
Allende, candidate of the
Communist controlled Popu-
lar Action Front (FRAP).
Allende lost by 35,000 votes,
in 1958 to outgoing president
Jorge Alessandri.
A provincial election to
name a national deputy will
be held next week, a day
after the Youth Congress
closes. Outcome of the elec-
tion may provide an indica-
tion of which way the coun
try will go in September.
Principal organizer of the
Youth Congress is a 35-10-40
year old Cuban Communist
named Joaquin Mas
Martinez. A U.S. official de
scribes him as "one of the
braintest" of the Castro
• followers.
Mas stepped in last fall
when the Congress, originally
scheduled for July of 1963,
faltered Cuban exile groups
claim he gets his Instructions
for the Congress directly
from Moscow.
Mas, a former president of
the School of Social Science
at the University of Havana
'and now vice president of the
University Student Federa-
tion, arrived in Chile in
September.
No quickly organised the
International Preparation
Conunittes for the Congтавя
National preparation groups
began to sprout up in other
Latin countries at the same
Umo.
Chilean authorities ordered
hlm expelled several times as
a "Toreign egent" Each Umo
Communist and Socialist
party officials intervened in
his behalf.
Mas left Chile Nov. 20 for
Brazil, Bolivia and Venezuela
where ho conferred with
other Communist leaders,
then went on to Prague and
Moscow.
Ho returned to Santingo
Dec. 26. He was met at the

NRCOSS Analysis
attended only by Cuban
youth representatives. Theme
for the Congress was changed
1963,
January,
preparatory meeting for the
Second Congress nearly fiz
zled when the Cuban delegato read "For the Liberation
tion was detained in Mexico
on its way to Santiago. The
representative
Panamanian
flew froin Santiago to Mexico.
to confer with the Cubans,
then returned to Chile and
the meeting resumed. The
July date was set, an agenda
agreed on and the theme
"Fight of the Young for
Peace" was adopted.
In March, however, another
"International"; preparation
meeting was held in Cuba,
took
a more on
"anti-
of Latin America" and it
imperialist" tone.
:
Santiago in consideration of
numerous petitions."
Since its inception, Cuban
exile organizations in Miami
have waged a heated
propaganda campaign against
the Congress.
A letter from a top Soviet
youth official to Aldo
Alvarez, leader of the Cuban,
National Preparation
Committee for the Congress,
was reproduced and circulat-
Nothing more was hearded by the exiles. In It,
specific instructions for or-
ganizing the Congress ara
outlined.
until mid-summer with little
Interest apparently being
generated among Latin youth
"groups. The Congress was re-
scheduled for August and
again didn't take placo.
country. This time Chilean
Interior minister Dr. Sotero
del Rio intervened and Mas
come back."
But for Mas, the Congress
may not have come off.
It is an outgrowth of the
first Lation American Youth
Congress held in Cuba in
1960. It was there the "Cuba
SI, Yankee no" theme was
'To salvage lost prestige, It
was announced in late August
the Congress would be held in
Exile groups have promised
to send representatives to
Santiago when the Congress
convenes to "denounce the
Communist effort to
brainwash the youth of Latin
:
America."
MIAMI HERALD
6 March 1964
・201-746
nit

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
4/R/
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
Identities
L
2
3
29
Miami
DISPATCH BYMBOL AND
Separate Cover Attac.
B to UFGA-14781
The The Miami News,
29
IP
Sunland Training Center for
Retarded Children
The Miami Herald
Editor
Latin American Editor
4 Latin
5
The LEDA
24
SCAS to UFGA 14781
Enclita
FORM 53α USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
5-60
(40).
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
IPEDI
TRAVEL PROGRAM
ABSTRACT
DOC. MICRO. SER.
16