14-00000
104-10073-10113-
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

isc1-3/764141
2 MARCH 61

TO: Director of Special Investigation
Inspector Genere
USAP
Attention: Mr. Gilbert K. Levy

FROM: Ieputy Director, plang

SUDJECIS: LING Lindsey
WEINER Heins Theotor

1. feference is made to the telephone request dated 24
February 1961, of Major Malone for information concerning
Lindsey LING and Heinz Theodor EINER. The files contain
the following information concerning the subjects of your
request.

2 According to information from an official Portugues
service LING was contacted in late August 1900 in Santa Maria,
the Azores, by Eloy GUTIERREZ Manoyo, a Cuban National, and
Rafal probably Rafael HERNANDEZ, a Cuban diplomat. In 1988
and 1959, GUTIERREZ vas reliably reported, brother sources,
to have been a military supporter of Fidel CASTRO's revolution
and to be employed by CASTRO possibly as a G-2 agent. In
August 1959 he had infiltrated the rauks of certain anti-CASTRO
conspirators and delivered the leaders up to the Cuban Govern-

3. The Portuguese service further reported in September 1960
that Lindsey LING, aka LING Lind sey, was the manager of a Chinese
restaurant located at rua Valaverde 9, Madrid, Spain, and that the
restaurant was owned by a second (unidentified) Chinese, who was
also supplying clothing to the United States personnel at the
Lajoe Base in the Agores. Theodor Reing/WIENER, who had represented
the clothing firm in the Azores, was reportedly arrested there in
December 1958 on a suspicion of espionage, and was, as of September
1960, reportedly in Bermuda, where LING was planning to go to
investigate setting up another restaurant.

The files contain no further information concerning Sub-
jects than that which is already believed to be contained in your
files.

CSCI-3/764,141

RID/CE: JWE/RO/jrg (29-2-7/2)
Based on: OFPE-29605, 13 Jan. 61
LISB-1827 (IN 12873), 15 Sept. 60
15-15
#0975:
