2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DIRECTOR
JAVAVE
ACTION
INFO DDP, ADDP, S90 6, DODS, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, C/FIC 2, FI/INFO/I/INT 6, SAS 12, 50/1, WH 8, AD/CI 2, AD/ME/VR.

SECRET2623097
DIR INFO LANT PACY BARR CITE WAVE 8188
INTEL TYPIC

TOCSDB-3/658,079
NOV 27 02172 63 IN 68504

SUPDATA: AMKHAN-2 RECEIVED 251245 LOCAL. REF BARR 1391 (IN 1.
PREVIOUS MENTION OF TANKS WITH TWIN CANNON "NOT PREVIOUSLY SEEN" UFG-3958
A-2 FROM EDUARDO PEREZ REPEAT PEREZ DUANEY (PROTECT). RID NO INDEX.

FILED 2623097. REPORT CLASS: SECRET CONTROLLED DISSEM NO FOREIGN DISSE
COUNTRY: CUBA

SUBJ: SIGHTING OF TANKS WITH TWIN CANNONS IN THE AREA OF HABANA.

DOI: 23 NOV 63. FADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (26 NOV 63) UFG 4138

SOURCE: AN EDUCATED CUBAN OF WESTERN EUROPEAN EXTRACTION WHO LIVES
IN HABANA. SOURCE HAS REPORTED MILITARY INFORMATION ACQUIRED BY
PERSONNEL OBSERVATION. SOURCE'S RELIABILITY HAS NOT YET BEEN
ESTABLISHED. THIS INFORMATION IS FROM A MANAGER OF AN AGRICULTURAL
ENTERPRISE IN HABANA

DATE DISTRIBUTED: 27 NOV 1963
TDCS
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
PRIORITY
BASED ON: UFG-4130
LIAISON: RETURN TO CA

---

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

COUNTRY CUBA
SUBJECT TANKS WITH TWIN CANNON IN THE AREA OF HABANA

REPORT NO. TOCS DB-3/658,079
DATE DISTR 27 NOVEMBER 1963
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
REFERENCES IN 68504

DATE OF INFO. 23 NOVEMBER 1963
PLACE & DATE ACQ. UNITED STATES, MIAMI (26 NOVEMBER 1963)
FIELD REPORT NO.
APPRAISAL THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
SOURCE AN EDUCATED CUBAN OF WESTERN EUROPEAN EXTRACTION WHO LIVES IN HAVANA. SOURCE HAS REPORTED MILITARY INFORMATION ACQUIRED BY PERSONAL OBSERVATION. SOURCE'S RELIABILITY HAS NOT YET BEEN ESTABLISHED. THIS INFORMATION IS FROM A MANAGER OF AN AGRICULTURAL ENTERPRISE IN HABARA.

1. ON 23 NOVEMBER 1963, ABOUT 200 TANKS WERE OBSERVED, APPARENTLY PARTICIPATING IN MANEUVERS, IN AN AREA AT THE INTERSECTION OF VIA MONUMENTAL AND CARRETERA CENTRAL. MANY OF THE TANKS HAD TWIN CANNON MOUNTED AND WERE A TYPE PREVIOUSLY NOT OBSERVED BY THE EYEWITNESS. (FIELD COMMENT: A CUBAN WHO HAS PROFESSIONAL CONTACT WITH RELATIVES OF OFFICIALS IN CUBAN GOVERNMENT CIRCLES AND A VARIETY OF CONTACTS IN WESTERN CUBA, REPORTED THAT ON 23 OCTOBER THE ORENBURG BROUGHT A NUMBER OF ARMORED VEHICLES WHICH WERE CALLED LANZA LLAMAS (FLAME THROWERS) AND WERE A TYPE NOT PREVIOUSLY OBSERVED IN CUBA. THESE TANKS CARRIED TWO CANNON WHICH APPEARED SIMILAR TO THE 152 MM ARTILLERY PIECE.)

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEN
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

---

SECRET
TDCS DB-3/658,079
68504

2. AS OF THAT SAME DATE THERE WAS A LARGE MILITARY CAMP TO THE WEST OF VIA MONUMENTAL JUST BEFORE REACHING THE CARRETERA CENTRAL. (FIELD COMMENT: THIS IS PROBABLY THE LOMA DE TIERRA MILITARY AREA WHICH HAS RECENTLY SEEN A LARGE INFLUX OF VEHICLES AND MATERIEL).

3. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINCSO, COMNAVREYWEST
