104-10114-10152 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

March 18,1961

To: Mr. Jack Kennedy
WH/4/Security

On March 18,1961 I spent hours with Cours Wood and we discussed at great length his plans for the future and his participation in the activities of the
FRAY FOR CUBA COMITEE THE Court seems to be extremely naive concerning my position with the Agency and he is very even and frank with in all areas.
I am certain that if given onough time I can obtain a great deal of infomation on the backgrounds and activities of rary of his associates.

While visiting his apartment I observed that both Court and his father are interested in in a large number of Communist Publications. These included "U.3.S.R." "The Worker", and "mary Prop. pamchlets that were obviously published in Englend. Court is an extreme Leftist in his political views and he believes fanatically in Castro's Cuba

Mr. Wood mentioned to me that he and several of his friends are making plans to enter Cuba in Juna; illegally if necessary. He apparently wants to becoraja tenorm for the Castro government and to make his permanent home here, Members of the "26sh of, July Movomont" are in close contact with Court and they are envolved in this proposed move to Cuba. Court does have Sоmе mоnеу and he secreto De Tery serious this a thing. Within the next few days I hope to be able al to get come nimes and great fla facts concerning their plans.

Please include this in my permanent record.

Trial Stratton
WH/4/Security
Ex. 2929

Background. Usa Only
