14-00000
104-10213-10352
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED
SUBJECT: (Optional)
TERNAL
SE ONLY
CONSENTIAL
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
House Select Committee on Assassinations Request for
Information on 201 Criteria (SAR
EXTENSION
(SFEB 28 4-50 PH 78
DATE
28 February 1978
FROM:
C/ISS
1D4124
SECRET
:
TO: (Officer designation, room number, and
building)
1.
O/SA/DO/O
2.
3. OLC
attn: Pat. Carpentier
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
DATE
OFFICER'S
INITIALS
RECEIVED FORWARDED
COMMENTS (Number each commend to show from whom
to whom. Drow a line across columa after each comment.)
1 to 3:
attached is the
to OCC
31078-0070/19
23 Feb 1978.
The atladed
regulations answer
anse
all of the questions
posal.
I. Phase
note the classifint
SECRET.
Me assume
that HSC & Staff
will porer
my

13.
110
USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED
:
.

14-00000
:
SECRET
7
CHть 0070
DO/ISS 78-098
28 February 1978
:
FROM:
MEMORANDUM FOR: O/SA/DO/O
Attention: Mr. Shepanek
Chief, Information Services Staff
William F. Donnelly
SUBJECT:
House Select Committee on Assassinations
Request for Information on 201 Criteria (S)
L
REFERENCE:
OLC 78-0070/19, 23 February 1978

1. (S) With reference to the conversation of
27 February between Mr. Shepanek and Mr. Cleffi of ISS,
attached are copies of DOHB 70-1-1, 15 November 1974,
and an earlier version, CSHB 43-1-1 dated 15 February 1960.
A close study of the list of questions submitted by the
HSCA Staff has led us to conclude that the most complete
and effective way to respond would be by inviting the
Staff to review our regulation governing the criteria for
opening, maintaining, controlling and closing 201 files
by the Operations Directorate. A careful reading of the
regulation provides an answer to every question posed by
the Staff.
2.
(S) The earlier version of the regulation is
included to reflect the situation as it existed in the
period of their primary concern (1958-1964). The later
version provides an expansion, clarification and refinement
of the earlier versions.
Willkanin 7. mall
William F. Donnelly
SECRET
POET CL DV 015866
:

14-00000
SECRET
ANNEX B
THE 201 SYSTEM
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III
15 November 1974
Rescission: Annex B of Chapter III, CSHB 70-1-1, 27 October 1966
1. INTRODUCTION
The 201 system provides a method for identifying a person of specific in-
terest to the Operations Directorate and for controlling and filing all pertinent
information about that person. The system also provides a means for identifying
subjects of 201 files from various categories of information about them and for
producing lisits of 201 personalities according to those categories. Only a rela-
tively small number of personalities indexed are of sufficient interest to justify
opening a 201 dossier. These are normally subjects of extensive reporting and
CI investigation, prospective agents and sources, members of groups and organi-
zations of continuing target interest, or subjects on whom a volune of corre-
spondence has accumulated.
2. THE 201 SYSTEM
The principal features of the 201 system are:
a. The 201 Number: a unique number, i.e., 201-1234567, assigned to each
individual in the system to serve as identifying file number for reporting on that
individual
b. The 201 Dossier: the official file containing the 201 opening form (Form
$31) and all biographic reporting on and references to the individual, i.e., per-
sonal history, current status, and prospects.
c. The Master 201 Record: a machine record generated by the opening of
a 201 file. This record produces the master 201 reference for the Main Index and
stores the pertinent information which may later be retrieved for special listings.
d. Main Index Master 201 Reference: this reference, printed in reply to an
Index Search Request, is printed as illustrated below. When data are absent
within the record, s..cceeding data items or lines will be moved up and the ref-
erence consolidated.
23
SECRET

14-00000
P
L
SECRET
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974
0002 CROIX, WILLIAM PENDLETON
SEX M DOB 12 APR 26
CIT GERM
POB GERY, BERLIN
OCC PHARMACIST
OCC CODE CHEM
REF AACD-12345 25 53
SUBJECT RECENTLY ATTENDED THE SEVENTEΞTH ANNUAL
COATERENCE OF THE PATERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF CHENISTS
AND PHARMACISTS HELD IN MUNICH, GERMANY FROM 22 THAOUGH
29 OCTOBER.
201-0032671
ΤΥΡΕ ΝΑΜE T-
ΟΙ CODES AA ZX-1
RCD DATZ 53

Information About Subject
1. Sequence Number and Name
2. Sex and Date of Birth
30 NOV 70
00833555
1
3. Citizenship
4. Place of Birth
5. Occupation
6. Occupation Code
7. Text
Document Reference Data Group
3
8. 201 Number
!
9. Name Type Indicator
10. OI Codes
E
11. Record Date (year only)
C
12. Reference
ISG Control Information
F
13. Date of latest update of the record
14. STAR Index Record Number
24
SECRET
Fae
re

14-00000
L
bon
SECRET
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974
e. Ol Code: a two letter symbol used in conjunction with the 201 per-
sonality records in the 201 system to record the association of an individual
with organizations or activities of operational interest. Of codes cover intelli-
gence and security service affiliation, whether staff or agent, er known or
suspect, as well as activities of DDO interest. There are two categories of OI
codes for use by components:
(1) general Ol codes (Attachment 4)
(2) OI codes assigned to a specific component for intelligence services
or other specific organizations.
A component may request an Ol code be established by submitting a mem-
orandum to the DDO/RMO through the component Records Management
Officer.
A 201 personality may be assigned two OI codes. An Ol code may be assigned
when the 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831) is initiated (see
paragraph 3b below) by filling in Box 13 or a code may be assigned or added
at a later date by a Form 831 amendment.
The 201 system has the capability of producing machine listings of 201
personalities by Ol codes. For example, if an Ol code has been opened for the
security service of a certain country a listing may be compiled of all members
of that service.
f. 201 Machine Lists: produced from the mechanized 201 Index, based on
names or other identifying information of personalities on whom 201 dossiers
exist.
3. OPENING A 201 DOSSIER
a. General
The opening of a 201 dossier is the prerogative of an operational com-
ponent, in coordination with the Information Services Group. An opening creates
a master 201 record. Changes to the master record and the occasional closing
of a 201 dossier are controlled jointly by the desks and ISG. 201 dossiers may be
opened on persons who meet the carding criteria described in Chapter II of this
handbook, when there is a reasonable expectation that additional information
will be acquired and filed in such a dossier. Generally dossiers are opened on
persons about whom counterintelligence information is being reported, and per-
sons of operational interest to the Operations Directorate, specifically those
persons for whom provisional operational approvals and operational approvals
are requested (see exception below). 201 files are not to be opened on staff -
1 employees, staff agents and most categories of contract employees. Files on
25
SECRET

14-00000
L
SECRET
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974
persons who are only of local interest to a field station or Headquarters desk {
and on whom no DDO records correspondence exists are not a part of the DDO
records system and are to be maintained by that unit. Some desks levy require-
ments on ISG for automatic 201 openings on certain categories of persons whose
names appear in incoming dispatches. These are listed in Attachment 2. 201
dossiers should be opened in the following categories:

(1) Subjects of provisional operational approval and operational ap-
proval requests. However, a file need not be opened when a POA is requested
for persons being trained for a foreign liaison service and who are of opera-
tional interest for training purposes only.

(2) Persons for whom the field requests a 201 opening.

(3) MHFIXTURE personalities: bonafide diplomats of other than
denied area countries, in close association with staff personnel.

(4) Subjects of a Personal Record Questionnaire Part I.

(5) Persons on whom a Main Index search reveals information in five
or more documents (see DOI 70-20).

(6) Subjects of Interagency Source Register memoranda from LSN/
ISR (opened only by IP/RMS).
b. Requesting a 201 File Opening
Headquarters desks may open a 201 file by filling out and submitting
a 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831) to the Records Main-
tenance Section (IP/RMS). Form 831 is also used to create or amend the
master 201 record and 201 machine listings and to register the assign-
ment of a cryptonym to a 201 personality. Attachment 3 consists of sample
201 Personality File Action Requests for opening and amending 201's. A field
station may request the opening of a 201 file by writing 201 in the Head-
quarters file or cross-reference box on the dispatch form and/or after the
subject's name in the body of the dispatch. A telepouch request for a 201 opening
is made by indicating 201- in the file number line. A cable request is made by
placing 201- after the term "File" on the last line of the transmission. IP/AN
will open 201 files as requested by dispatch or telepouch but it is the responsi-
bility of the desk to respond to cable requests. Field stations are notified of
201 openings through receipt of the field master 201 record.
26
SECRET
1

14-00000
SECRET
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER 11I, ANNEX B
15 November 1974
4. CONTENTS OF THE DOSSIER
Information about a 201 personality should be filed or cross-referenced into
his dossier. When additional information is discovered on a 201 subject through
a name trace or other process, i.e., review of predecessor documents, it must
be consolidated into his personality dossier. See DOI 70-20 for consolidation
procedures.
?
1
Material which is filed in the dossier includes but is not limited to:
a. 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831).

b. Biographic information including photographs, fingerprints, and
handwriting samples.

c. Personal Record Questionnaire Parts I and II.

d. Operational and other security approvals.

e. Name check replies, requests, clearances, and approvals.

f. Acknowledgement of pseudonym.

g. 201 personality assessments and evaluations.

h. Copy of contract and termination papers.

i. Secrecy agreement.

j. Agent Duty Status Report.

k. Training and evaluation.

21. SGSWIRL report.

m. Newspaper clippings.

n. Any information which helps provide a better understanding of the
subject and our interest in him; this may include operational reporting.
5. MAINTENANCE OF 201 DOSSIERS
The 201 personality dossier contains, in document date order, papers which
have been made a part of the Central Records System as well as those which
have not. Record documents may range from newspaper or magazine articles
on the subject to finance and other administrative papers.
درهم
26.1
SECRET

14-00000
SECRET
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974
a. Purging
Purging a 201 dossier is the responsibility of the desk officer. It requires
discrimination in recognizing operationally useful material, rather than the
simple distinction between official and unofficial papers; it will therefore take
place under the supervision of a Records Officer. Purging should be done
periodically. A 201 dossier being forwarded to Central Files for retention should
be purged. A 201 dossier should be purged of the following:
(1) Duplicate material, i.e., exact copy(s) of a document.

(2) Name trace form (Form 362) unless it has been the basis for
the opening.

(3) All abstract slips.

(4) All document restriction notices (Form 1884).

(5) The disseminated version of positive intelligence information if
a copy of the raw report is contained in the 201 file; the Gissemination number
then must be transferred to the first page of the raw report.

(6) Routing slips, routing and record sheets (Form 610) and dispatch
cover sheets unless there are remarks such as coordinations or comments.

(7) Record copy documents which only repeat substantive information
contained in other documents in the file; authorization for destruction is
by the Records Officer.

(8) Top Secret documents are not to be retained in a 201 dossier
forwarded to Central Files; the document must be downgraded for retention
in the 201 dossier. To downgrade a Top Secret document, an authorized
officer in the originating office or the Records Officer having jurisdiction
over the contents of the material must possess Top Secret classification
authority. If the document cannot be downgraded the file should be retained
at the desk or the copy of the TS document should be removed, retained
in a desk TS file or forwarded to the Top Secret Control Officer, and a
cross-reference sheet (Form 867) placed in the 201 file giving the location
of the TS document.

(9) Deferred documents (see 56(2)).
b. Maintenance Procedures

(1) All material in a 201 dossier will be filed in document date order.
In the case of document attachments which have been classified into a 201
26.2
SECRET
مفيد
۱۰
امنه

14-00000
SECRET
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974
า
dossier and separated from the basic document by the assignment of a slash
number, the attachment will be filed by the date of the basic document.

(2) Deferred documents wiil not be filed in a 201 dossier. If they are
to be retained in the dossier they should be sent to IP/RMS for classification
into that 201.

(3) Field index cards (held by some desks) and area desk cards may
be retained in the 201 as part of a consolidation procedure. These cards
should be mounted on a full-size sheet of paper for filing in the 201.

(4) A 201 dossier previously opened on a person who becomes a staff
einployee and which contains Record Copy documents will be restricted to
the ISC/DIP unless the desk retains the restriction. The dossier should be
closed if there are no Record Copy documents in it.

(5) A 201 opened in pseudonym should be consolidated into the true
name 201 if one exists or converted to the true name.

(6) Field and duplicate (shadow) 201 files no longer of active interest
should be incorporated into the official 201 after the duplicate material
has been purged by the desk officer and the remaining information classified
to that 201 by the Analysis Section (IP/AN).

(7) Any document with a predecessor organization cover sheet or an
OPC (Office of Policy Coordination) cover sheet from the Archives and
Disposition Section (IP/ARD) must be returned to IP/ARD for processing
to the 201.

(8) Desk memoranda (with or without a document source number)
containing substantive or derogatory information on the subject of the 201
should be sent to IP/AN to be classified officially into the 201 file.

(9) An attachment which should be separated from its basic docuinent
for inclusion in a 201 personality dossier will be forwarded with the basic
document to IP/AN for processing into the 201.

(10) To retain the P&L, RYBAT, or KAPOK sensitivity of a document
remaining in a 201 dossier being retired to Central Files, place that document
in an envelope sealed with black tape (see DOI 70-17). Any RYBAT, P&L,
or KAPOK document sent to Central Files not in a black-taped envelope will
automatically be handled as desensitized. A black-taped envelope may con-
tain only one document and must be filed in chronological order within the
file. If there are numerous documents of this type the desk officer may black-
tape the entire dossier rather than individual documents (see DOI 70-10).
26.3
SECRET
i

14-00000
L
SECRET
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974
Black-taped dossiers or dossiers with black-taped documents will be
handled as restricted dossiers.

(11) An inactive 201 dossier or an inactive volume of a large 201
dossier on permanent charge should be returned to Central Files under a
Routing and Record Sheet with the notation shown below.
UNCLASSIFIED
ENTERHAL
USE our
१.
IP/Piles
GC-52
2
CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
PARSNITIAL OF DRACTIVE 201 DOSSIERS
OPCEFS
(For gultance see CSEB 70-1-1,
Chapter III, ex.
Volume(a)
of 201-
volume(a)
Bestricted Doester
(Attach Form 2021 to
Dossier)
Fon-Bestricted Dossier
For Split Charge Doesters:
IL
All documents prior to
(date)
12.
forwarded to IP/Piles. All
documents after
12
(date)
retained at
desk.
14
N
610E
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
INTERN
OSE GALY
UNCLASSIFIED
28.4
SECRET

14-00000
2
SECRET
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974
6. 201 DOSSIER CHARGES
A 201 dossier may be kept on permanent charge at the desk during any
period of active interest. If the dossier is transferred to another desk, the desk
officer who is transferring the dossier must notify Central Files of the transfer.
Central Files will then send the Notice of Transfer of Document or File Account-
ability (Form 2977) to the new action desk officer.
10:
CONFIDENTIAL
(theo glitod fas
NOTICE OF TRANSFER OF DOCUMENT OR FILE ACCOUNTABILITY
1000
TLBE
This is to cotify you that sccountability for the document(s) and/or file(s) cited
below has been transferred to you by:
Accordingly, IP's records now reflect you as the custodian. Please contact IP/Files,
Ext. 4362, if you have any questions regarding this transfer.
PROJECT OF MONEST
1-73
2377...
FILE.
DOC. STWO
CONFIDENTIAL
DOC. DATE
CL BY: OSPAT
..
The new action desk officer must then fill out a 201 Personality File Action
Request (Form 813) to change the action desk designation to insure that the
201 personality will be included in the Headquarters and field machine listings
for his component.
7. RESTRICTED DOSSIERS
a. Access to a sensitive 201 dossier may be restricted by holding the file at the
desk or placing it on restriction in Central Files.

(1) The dossier may be restricted by checking Box 2 on the 201
Personality File Action Request (Form $31) when the file is opened.
26.5
SECRET

14-00000
SECRET
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974
(2) The dossier may be restricted by holding it on permanent charge
from Central Files. (Note: To maintain the restriction of a dossier being
returned to Central Files for retention, a File Restriction Notice (Form
2021) must accompany the dossier.)

(3) The dossier may be restricted and held in Central Files by sub-
mitting a File Restriction Notice (Form 2021).
P/PI
OC-52 TUBE 07-6
IP/DCU
G-40 TE ΕΠΑ
CONFIDENTIAL
(Bhen Bailed 201
FILE RESTRICTION NOTICE
ACTION DESK: 1.
To restrict a file, complete Section & (signature of R.O. cot
Decessary).
2.
То гевоте a restriction, complete Section B (3.0. signature
necessary).
SECXICY A
RESTRICT TO: (Use country or non-country code number. See CSI 73-28)
BY:
COMPONENT:
(...ss
Date:
ROACTE RESTRICTION (AUTHORIZED BY)
R.O. No.
Date:
2021.
CONFIDENTIAL
12DT
1.30
7
b. Access to a restricted dossier located in Central Files is limited to the
personnel of the restricting desk or persons authorized by that desk. Any request
for the charge of a restricted dossier or any document within a restricted dossier
held in Central Files will be forwarded with the entire dossier and a multiple-
routed cover sheet to the restricting desk. This desk may then forward the file
to the requester or deny the request and return the dossier to Central Files. The
desk will notify the requester of a denial.

c. Anyone requesting a restricted dossier, or a document within a restricted
dossier, permanently or temporarily charged to a desk, will be referred to that
desk by Central Files.
11
26.6
SECRET

14-00000
L
SECRET
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974
?
8. REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION ON 201 PERSONALITIES
The Automated Index Section (IP/AIS) will provide the identity of the
subject of a 201 number unless the 201 file is restricted, in which case the
requester will be referred to the restricting desk.

IP/AIS will also provide the 201 number assigned to a name, unless the 201
file is restricted, or state that there is no 201 number assigned. Requesters should
supply identifying information whenever available for each name submitted.

Requests pertaining to five or fewer names or numbers may be made by
telephone by calling the IP/AIS red line extension; IP/AIS will provide the.
information by return call to the requester's extension as listed in the Badge
Table. Requests for more than five names or numbers must be listed and sent
by tube or courier to IP/AIS; IP/AIS will reply by return mail.
9. 201 DOSSIER CANCELLATION
A 201 file may be authorized for cancellation by a Records Officer, after
appropriate coordination. The file should be forwarded to IP/RMS which will
destroy the folder and the cards leading to it and will remove the name and
number from machine lists. Any Record Copy document contained in the folder
will be reclassified to another appropriate file or sent to the Destruction Unit
(IP/DU) as directed by the desk Records Officer.
10. 201 MACHINE LISTINGS
Machine listings provide field stations and Headquarters desks with names
and 201 numbers in the requester's particular geographic or functional area of
interest. If a component wishes to exclude a sensitive 201 personality from its
alphabetic, numeric, and cryptonym listings, this may be done when opening
the 301 or later by a 201 amendment. On the 201 Personality File Action Request
(Form $31) leave the country of location (Box 15) and interest desk (Box 16)
blank, use the non-country code 900 in the action box (Box 14), and indicate
permanent charge to the responsible desk. The only listing which will include the
201 number is the IP/201 record for the Vital Records program. 201 listings are
categorized as standard or nonstandard and as scheduled or special.
a. Standard Listings
Issued semi-annually to Headquarters and the field; based on a component's
interest as indicated in the "Action Desk," "Country of Location," and "Interest
26.7
SECRET
1

14-00000
it
ful & Cala
SECRET
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER JIII, ANNEX B
15 November 1974
:
Desk blocks or the 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831). The
standard listings available are:

(1) Alphabetical by surname, leading to a 201 number;

(2) Alphabetical by given name, leading to a 201 number,

(3) Alphabetical by cryptonym, leading to a 201 number;

(4) Numerical, leading to a surname;

(5) Numerical, leading to a cryptonym.
801 SURNAME MLPHA LIST
KATE
CHER. 1/15/11/2014
cron. Som
01/1313/609
٠٢١٩
٢٠٠٢١15/10/1
Casacu12170701/1343/1998
4
4
SECRET/ORGANIZATION INTERNAL USE OLY
١١٦٧١١
BIRTHPLACE
CHINO ROONGTUNG
الماريج
٠٥
ここどこ
1222
عد
٢٠١
$25E 26
12110
CHIM, NOY
CHIA, FLUTEN, PΡΟΥ.
(4/14, FCRT ARIM
CHIN
CHIN
CHIT, CAS
CHER, LIIPALE PRO
BUSP CCM C3:3751
८८८. ८11.
231
DIPT
CHIN 0163008
023-450
679653
01-1 01-2461. いく。
CHIE HE
CHIN CHIS
CHER не
٢٠١٠٢ 0234:29
CHIN
CURS
1047
0179620
CHEM CHI
075975
CHER
DIPT CC
CHIM ALLT
ניל ניין
0017855
CH147 0133415
CHIR PAT
Boards
ceros co
MOF COIN
00102
CHIR
CHIN USE
CHEN M
(リー
٠٩٥٠٢
115/2205/930
۱۳ 115/321/122
١٩٢١
024430
"
M
:
19
CIOCZE
מען
30115/245/7
Coupe, sms 51/215/2015/4133
) رات
DSMATEO
120
DOFERIO
CHIN, Ca
CHIN,
GRING PRO
CHIN, CHANGTUNG PECE.
C-14, TANG IS
N
CHIM.PFILIU
CMR.RGTUNG
CHIR, SUNGRUTE
CHIN.POCONE
CHIN, MCPE!
247 2752614
CTA 0324326
C414? 012434
TSES CAP 0799119
CHIN? 0299223
0408577
CHI? 0179671
CHIN?
0014753
CHIN TAI
C
CHIEDE
CHIN
CHIS CHIN
CHIN
SOTELLO E-633
CHTS
CHINT 0179427
Cola Co
DEPT CCC
0223161
CHIN CF
DIPE CAST
OP30155
CHF LS4
27723
. LET
CHIS
८१. 15/07/2
122413
220-
CHIM.FERESNA
10/7973/910
IM
4
2055-20
CHER, FANG CHENG
CusN. Msta-SIEMタ
Page
CHI7
01745]
দোম পো
CCO
0271972
CHIS C.
DEPT CHIN
CHIN? 0179626
0271192
CHEN CHI
CHES TAT
マン
٢٦١٠
وم
CHIN
01747
こり 133
(15/05/
Pura, SMU- 139/2**5/2773 4
1502430
CHIN.CCHI
C-10 CHEN? 0179625
CHER CHI
١٢٢٤٢١٩
Crin, CNCTING PEG2.
(447-7 0052639
C٣٠
124026
(ст
LIN
2734025
CHIN? 013319
Ctn C
おげて
CMIR, SWAM
GEOL CHIS? 0763*16
CHIN
Cs, Suy TEN
▼
27-8720
CHIM, CTG S
0013951
٢٠١٦
٥٤٩٩/١٩٥/٦
CICIS
CHINNING CA
CHIM? 0153120
CHER
٠١٦ין
٢٢١٦
F1
0767462
03122
0061610
CHIN
٢٠١٢٠ ٢٣١٩٠14 /7415/2695/1638
CMEY, SM
CHINPEIPI
47115/28
CM. SM-18 17115/257/12/
scuirst
craxco
CHINFO CHEY EV
CHIM? 0174120
CHIR, HERG TANG NSEEN. HUNARTENST
6167424
مري
come
すいま
2121 frin, Srソン・
CERISED 1407
* 11115/25/342/
CMIS, SPICIN
1106 CHER, REMTUNG
CHIN
CHINT 0107376
সোম দেহ
CHIN DEM
C
CHIN Taze
SECRATAPGARLATION INTERNAL USE OLY
26.8
SECRET
(41) 0144758
اله

14-00000
SECRET
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ΑΝΝEX B
15 November 1974
All standard listings are cumulative; previous editions must be destroyed
upon receipt of current editions. These listings are by their very nature extremely
sensitive compilations of information and must be given every possible safeguard.
b. Non-Standard Listings
Based on one or more of the following selection criteria:
(1) Country of location

(2) OI codes (organization and/or intelligence affiliation)

(3) Citizenship

(4) Year of birth (plus or minus a given number of years)

(5) Occupation.
These selection criteria may be used singly or in combinations. For example,
a user could obtain a list of all 201 personalities who have been assigned the
Ol code of XX or codes of XX, XY, or NZ. A 201 personality list could also be
produced of all persons who were born in Germany between the years 1915
and 1920, with the occupation computer specialist, who are now citizens of the
United States, located in Mexico, and who had been assigned the Ol code AA.
Note however that the listing would contain only those personalities with an
Ol code AA. Those personalities with an Of code other than AA and those
with no Ol code would be excluded. The requester could however ask that
persons who have not been assigned an Ol code also be included. Note also
that when retrieving lists based on occupation, the listing will be only as specific
as the occupation code (Attachment 1). The occupation code for a courier
covers only a documented courier. Some occupation codes cover more than one
occupation. For example, the occupation code CRAF covers those who practice
some trade or manual occupation, i.e., carpenters, bricklayers, painters, mechanics
and electricians. If a list is requested for electricians, all others in this category
will be included in the printout. These non-standard listings