14-00000
104-10173-10132
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET
NOTES
DFC
20 December 1973

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: E. Howard Hunt

1. I phoned Paul Burns, Special Assistant to the DDO, and
said that we had some leads that could be followed by whoever has
the action in the DDO in tracking down Hunt's activities during the
fall of 1964, when he was alleged to have been engaged in surveillance
activities of Barry Goldwater.

2. I said that our files showed Hunt was in DO Division (Burns
was not familiar with that title, but recognized it as the predecessor
of FR Division) and in August 1964 was assigned to the Washington
field office. I suggested that Stan Gaines, who was Deputy Division
Chief of DO Division and now DCOS Bonn, might be in a position to
give a few groups on what Hunt was supposed to be doing then. I
suggested that he be queried by cable. Burns said Gaines is staying
on under contract for a while, so would continue to be available.
1

3. I said that Fig Coleman was on the Iberian desk when the
Hunt assignment to Madrid was brought up in 1964 and when Hunt
went to the field in 1965. He could give the background on the assign-
ment, which seems to have been through Karamessines at Helms'
direction. His recollection would give leads. I told him that Coleman
became COS Madrid later, after Hunt left Spain, and could provide
information on what Hunt did not do for the Agency during that period.
I suggested that both Helms and Karamessines should be queried.
I gave as a possible press treatment that Hunt was engaged in
domestic operations (something Senator Baker is pursuing) and that
his assignment to Spain after the clection could be presented as giving
him time to cool off. I thought we had to pursue the matter to be
sure we know the facts.

4. I asked Burns to be sure that we are on information distribution
of cables to the field on this, given our assigned responsibility for
keeping files on Watergate. He said we are on the PLMHPLANK for
messages to Helms. He would advise the action officer. I said we are
available for any help we can give.

S. D. Breckinridge

14-00000
SECRET
9 May 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR: OPS/RMO
SUBJECT : Watergate File Research - Final Report

1. The files of the immediate office of the Chief, OPS/OSG
have been checked for material relevant to the subject of this
memorandum. The check included chronological files of communi-
cations of which I was the author while assigned to Madrid, Spain
in the period July 1970 to July 1973. Nothing pertinent was found.

2. I have attempted to recollect any other details which
conceivably could be pertinent and which relate to the period
of my assignment to Madrid. The only points which I recall but
on which I have no documentation are these:

a. There were occasional joshing inquiries made of me
by American residents of Madrid about the reported presence
in Spain of E. Howard Hunt in 1972. My standard reply was
that I knew only what I had heard rumored. For the record,
at no time did Hunt contact me, and I have never known of his
having tried to contact any Station personnel in Spain during
the period 1970-73. I made no effort personally to ascertain
whether or not Hunt was in Spain, and I had no effort made by
any Station member.

b. A Station officer, possibly Richard Ouderkirk, now
assigned to Guatemala, was given some information by an
informant in 1972 concerning reported activities in Spain
by Robert Vesco. I suggested that the information be given
informally to the Embassy's Economic Section chief, John
Oliver. That officer was charged with keeping abreast of
developments related to Vesco. The Station did not pursue
that subject, as I recall, because it was not a topic of
reportable interest, according to requirements of the period.

E2-IMPDET
CL. BY 056759
SECRET

14-00000
SECRET
-2-
SUBJECT: Watergate Flic Research - Final Report (cont'd)

3. There is no other employee assigned to my immediate
office who has relevant personal knowledge of events and
personalities.

Robert E. Owen
Robert E. Oven
Chief, OPS/OSG
SELDET

14-00000
UNCLASSIFIED
SUBJECT (Ophenol)

INNAL
USE ONLY
CONFID...TIAL
SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

FROMI
Director of Finance
1212 Key Building
TO: (Officer designahon, room number, and
builing)
LITENSION NO.
DATE
27 February 1974
COMMENTS (Number Back comment to show from whom
to whome. Draw a line across column after each comment.)
DATE
RECEIVED
FORWARDFO
OFFICER'S
INITIALS
1.
17
Inspector General
2 E 24 HQS
Zed
2.
3.
4.
7.
8:
9.
10.
11
12.
13.
14.
15.
R
Sandy-anadel - W-file
110
......
INTERMAL

14-00000
SECRET
MEMORANDUM FOR:
SUBJECT

Inspector General
: "Howard Hunt
27 FEG 1974

1. At the recent request of the Deputy Director for
Management and Services, the Office of Finance has searched
its records to determine if we could find any payment to
Mr. Hunt in an amount of approximately $30,000 that required
no accounting.

2. We have searched the following records:
a.
The expense runs for the period July 1964 to
June 1973 for the immediate Office of the DCI,
the immediate Office of the DD/P, FI Staff,
CI Staff, CA Staff and the Office of Security.
We have checked various items that were re-
flected in these expense records but have
identified nothing relating to Mr. Hunt.
b. The Madrid Station, JMWAVE and FR/Washington
Office accountings to determine if there were
funds passed by the Stations to Mr. Hunt during
the year he served under non-official cover in
Madrid. We could find no payment to Mr. Hunt
either in his true name or his two identified
pseudonyms.
c.
Mr. Hunt's travel claims for the period
1960-1972 and have found nothing in these
travel claims that were not consistent with
normal travel expenses, i.e., transportation,
per diem.
d. We made a specific analysis of Mr. Hunt's.
advance account for the period he was under
non-official cover (July '65-Sept '66) and have
SECRET

E2 IMPDET
CL BY: 00656.7

14-00000
SECRET
SUBJECT: Howard Hunt
determined that $33,500 was advanced to him
for travel and transportation of household
goods to and from Madrid with one trip to
Paris for he and his family to renew their
Spanish visas. All of this advance was fully
accounted for. However, in his accounting,
one item appeared unusual. It was an
expenditure of $1,600 for a sensitive
operation which was approved for write-off by Mr.
Desmond Fitzgerald on 1 June 1966 without
further accounting.

3. Also, we confirmed that no other Agency advance account's
were established for Mr. Hunt during this period.

4. At the beginning of his non-official cover tour, it
was necessary to establish a bank account in his name. The
EUR Division accordingly requested we open an account at the
Chase Manhattan Bank in Mr. Hunt's name to receive all non-
salary payments. (Mr. Hunt had an account at Riggs National
Bank to receive his salary and allowance payments). The
following deposits were made to the account during 1965 and
1966:
Account opened: 13 July 1965

13 July 1965
$10,000-
22 July 1965
5,000
15 September 1965
5,000
6 October 1965
5,000
19 July 1966
5,000
$30,000

All of the above have been accounted for by submission
of travel and transportation accountings.

5. We feel at this time without specific-guidelines that
further searching would be somewhat fruitless. One strange
aspect of the non-official cover assignment in Madrid is that
all the costs were charged to the support allotment of the
EUR Division which is not normal as non-official cover people
are usually assigned to a project. It is unusual to have a
case officer abroad for one year on an operational assignment
without hin incurring operational expenditures.

2-
SECRET

14-00000
SECRET
SUBJECT: Howard Hunt

6. The Office of Finance has not found operational
expenditures except for the $1,600 mentioned above.
Therefore, it is suggested that Mr. Karamessines be questioned
as to a project or projects to which Mr. Hunt's operational
expenditures if incurred would have been charged..

7. Another possible course of action is to request the
Director to approve my asking a cleared contact at Chase
Manhattan Bank to provide a transcript of all entries into
Mr. Hunt's Chase Manhattan Bank account.

8. We are currently reviewing records of all cashier's
checks prepared and issued by Monetary to determine if any
were payable to Mr. Hunt. Hopefully this effort will be.
finished by the end of the week.

Thomas B. Yale
Director of Finance
-3-
SECRET

14-00000
CONFIDENTIAL

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: E. Howard Hunt
20 December 1973

1. I spoke with Fig Coleman about Hunt's assignment to Spain.
I had spoken with him back in August when we were inquiring into
reported activities involving Mrs. Hunt......

2. Coleman said that he got out of the War College in May 1964
(by which he fixed the time), and took over the Iberian desk. Bill
Ryan was C/EUR (or was it WE Division at the time). In early autumn
Ryan said that he had just been informed by the DDP (Karamessines)
that Hunt was to be assigned to Madrid as DCOS, as a directed assign-
ment by Helms. A memo wa's prepared and sent to the COS, Jim Noel
(now retired). There was nothing further for about a month when Ryan
called Coleman in and showed him a RYBAT letter from Noel stating
that Ambassador Stanley J. Woodward would not have Hunt in the
Embassy.

3. Woodward had been the Ambassador to Uruguay when Hunt
was COS Montevideo. He had a low opinion of Hunt and was counting
the day's until Hunt left. The President of Uruguay visited President.
Eisenhower in the States, at which time he requested a personal favor--
that Hunt be reassigned to Montevideo. So Hunt took another tour.
Woodward was outraged, and had his revenge in 1964 when Hunt was
to be sent as DCOS to Madrid.

4. After a couple of months--carly 1965--Ryan called Coleman
in and, observing that there was more than one way to skin a cat,
told him that Hunt was going to Spain under nonofficial cover. This
didn't require anything special, Ryan saying that he didn't know
much about it. It came to him from Karamessines on Helms' order.
Hunt was to have the telephone number of the COS, but he would do
nothing for the station. Hunt was to submit administrative vouchers
for reimbursement of his expenses and they were to be paid. Coleman
said he never saw Hunt before he went out. He knows that there was
no operational reporting, to indicate that Hunt was doing anything.
....

14-00000
CONFIDENTIAL
The vouchers were not large, although the documentation was poor.
Coleman raised the question with Ryan about his signing off, and
Ryan said he could talk to Karamessines if he wished. Because
Coleman had a close personal association with Karamessines he
did just that. He was told by Karamessines that he didn't know much
about it either--"Helms said send him out." He was instructed to go
ahead.

5. In early July 1966 (4) July) Coleman went to Madrid. He
had a ten day turnover with Jim Noel. Hunt had already gone and
he did not see him. Noel said he didn't know what Hunt did, but
that Coleman need not worry because he was gone.

6. Several months ago Noel was at a seminar at which
Ambassador Woodward was also present. At the time he asked
about Hunt. Woodward said it might still be dragged into the press.
Tad Szulc had been after Woodward about the Hunt assignment to
Spain. Coleman observed that Szulc did have a long article on Hunt
in the New York Times, and the Spain assignment was mentioned,
but without any conclusions as to its significance..

7. Coleman said the RYBAT file of C/EUR may have something on
the event, but not much. A letter out and the reply, but not much more.
-2-
انا
..
S. D. Breckinridge

14-00000
22 February 1974
16 File !! The 38
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: E. Howard Hunt--Madrid Assignment

1. On 22 February 1974, Mr. Frederick N. Evans
and the undersigned interviewed Mr. Edward Ryan,
Chief, Staff D, Deputy Director for Operations, on
the subject of Mr. E. Howard Hunt. During the period
of Mr. Hunt's assignment as a Contract A agent
to Madrid between July 1965 and September 1966, Mr.
Ryan had been the Deputy Chief of the Western European
Division, Deputy Director for Plans. The purpose of
the interview was to determine if Mr. Ryan had any
information bearing on the matter of the operational
assignment of Mr. Huat during this period.

2. Mr. Ryan stated that the assignment of Mr.
Hunt both to the European Division and to Madrid was
handled without benefit of the routine processing
procedures through the Western European Division.
Mr. Hunt's assignment was coordinated and directed
by Mr. Thomas Karamessines, the Assistant Deputy Director
for Plans. With regard to operational duties, Mr. Ryan
was unaware of any specific project or target for Mr.
Hunt. Mr. Ryan made the specific observation that if
Mr. Hunt produced positive intelligence on the Iberian
target during this period the officials responsible
for this effort within the Western European Division
were totally unaware of it.

3. Nr. Ryan stated that most of his knowledge of
Mr. Hunt's activity and the nature of his assignment
during this period came more through hearsay than
direct official knowledge. For example, he cited the
comment made by a mutual acquaintance of his and Mr
Hunt's to the effect that Mr. Hunt stated that while
in Madrid he was going to "play golf and write books."
Nr. Ryan was asked specifically whether or not he was

14-00000
under the impression that Mr. Hunt's writing activities
were either being encouraged or subsidized directly
by this Agency in any official effort. No. Ryca re
sponded that he was personally not aware of any such
arrangement. He added as an expression of personal
opinion that Mr. Hunt had no operational function and
was simply granted the opportunity to write books for
his own personal gain at Government expense during this
period.
ة
Lawrence J. Howe

14-00000
STNOEN WILL CHECK CLASSY TION TOP AND DOTTOM
UNCLASSIFIED
FIDENTIAL
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP
SECRET
TO
NAME AND ADDRESS
1
Mr. Howe
3
:
4
ACTION
APPROVAL
COMMENT
CONCURRENCE
Remarksı
DATE
INITIALG
DIRECT REPLY:
DISPATCH
FILE
XX INFORMATION
PREPARE REPLY
RECOMMENDATION
RETURN
SIGNATURE
FOLO HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER
FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.
O/IG/2E24.Hgs./5527
1-07
UNCLASSIFIED
237
CONFIDENTIAL
tise previous editions
DATE
22 Feb 74
SECRET
(40)

14-00000
TION TOP ΑΝΟΠΟΓΓON
CHECK-CLAS
SECRET
(1:
16 File 10, Tal 32
22 February 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Conversation with Sam Halpern.

1. I met with Sam Halpern for about 20 minutes this morning
in GG10, where he is cleaning up some details before he goes to
his new assignment as DC/DCD. I told him generally about our
attempt to reconstruct Howard Hunt's assignments and financial
transactions, and asked him particularly for recollections he may
have of Hunt's assignment in Spain in mid-1965 to the fall of 1966.

2. Halpern said that he has no recollection about such an
assigament. In June 1965 he moved from WH Division with Des
FitzGerald when he became the DD/P. At about that time
Halpern's father died and he was in New York for the funeral
and ten days of religious observations following that. He was back
in mid-June and in and out from then on as he got ready to attend
the National War College which began in August. He did not return
to that office until the end of June 1966.

3. Halpern observed that during this period Karámessines
was ADDP with Helms moving up to be DDCI. He thought it entirely
possible that Helms and Karamessines could have handled this
on their own.

:
4. Halpern said that Evan Parker had come into the office
of the DD/P shortly before Helms became DDCI, and had returned
from Honolulu for that purpose. He stayed on for FitzGerald until
Halpern returned from the National War College. He suggested
someone might talk to Evan Parker who may have known something
about it (although he may not). He also suggested talking to Georgia.

/s/ S. D. Ereckinridge
S. D. Breckinridge

INPOIT CL BY..
0.3180

14-00000
16 Fale 12, Tale 54
21 February 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Watergate--Frank A. O'Malley

1. At 3 p.m. on the afternoon of 19 February 1974,
Mr. Frederick N. Evans and Lawrence J. Howe interviewed
Mr. Frank A. O'Malley at his residence, 6419 Lakeview
Drive, Falls Church, Virginia. Mr. O'Malley retired
from this Agency in June of 1972. Prior to retirement
Mr. O'Malley was an officer in the External Employment
Assistance Branch, Retirement Activities Division of
the Office of Personnel. It was Mr. O'Malley's function
to assist personnel retiring from this Agency in finding
post-retirement employment. In this capacity: Mr. O'Malley
had been instrumental in the placement of Mr. E. Howard
Hunt in the Robert R. Mullen public relations firm. The
purpose of this interview was to attempt to determine if
additional information could be developed from Mr. O'Malley
with regard to the placement of Mr. Hunt with the Mullen
Company.

2. Mr. O'Malley began the interview by recalling
the nature of his past Agency associations both with Mr.
Hunt and the Mullen Company. Mr. O'Malley stated that
prior to assuming his responsibilities in the Office of
Personnel he had served with Central Cover Staff in the
area dealing with the funding of covert action projects.
In this capacity he had become familiar with the acti-
vities of Mr. Hunt while Mr. Hunt functioned on the Covert
Activitics Staff primarily in the propaganda field. Mr.
O'Malley stated that he first came in contact with the
Mullen Company when he was attempting to find an organi-
zation to handle the public relations effort of a covert
Agency activity known as the Free Cuba Committee. Mr.
O'Malley related that he had arranged this cover through
the Christianform Organization and that his duties in-
volved all aspects of the funding of this activity. Mr.
:
O'Malley described the nature of his working relationship

14-00000
(
with Mr. Robert R. Mullen as being close and cordial.
Mr. O'Malley stated that Mr. Mullen was in the habit
of confiding to him information concerning other Mullen
business, contacts and projects. In response to a
specific question, Mr. O'Malley stated that during the
period of his contact with the Mullen Company dealing
with the Free Cuba Committee, Mr. Mullen told him the
Howard Hughes Organization was a client of the concern.

3. Mr. O'Malley reiterated his previous statements
that Mr. Hunt was referred to his office for placement
assistance through the Office of the Executive Director,
then Colonel L. K. White. Mr. O'Malley stated that in
view of Mr. Hunt's interests in the public relations
field, it was thought advisable to put Mr. Hunt in touch
with Mr. Robert Mullen for the purpose of gaining the
benefit of Mr. Mullen's guidance. Mr. O'Malley recalled,.
after the initial meeting, Mr. Mullen mentioned having
met Mr. Hunt some years previously in Paris, France.
Mr. O'Malley's office arranged interviews with various
organizations including Reader's Digest and the Kennecott
Copper Company. Through the offices of the Mullen Company
an interview was arranged with the General Foods Corpora-
tion, a Mullen client. Mr. O'Malley stated there was
disappointment that Mr. Hunt had been unsuccessful in
"selling himself" during any of these interviews and that
no job offers had resulted. In response to a question
as to whether or not executive level interest was still
being shown in Mr. Hunt's post-employment placement,
Mr. O'Malley recalled that Mr. Richard Helms, then
Director of Central Intelligence, was listed as a charac-
ter reference on Mr. Hunt's resume and that Mr. Holms
signed a letter of recommendation to the Kennecott Copper
Company on Mr. Hunt's behalf. Mr. O'Malley recalled being
contacted in the last month of Mr. Hunt's Agency service by
Mr. Mullen, who stated that a decision had been made to
expand their operations. In view of this expansion, Mr.
Mullen had decided he would himself offer Mr. Hunt a job.
Mr. Mullen had stated that he was interested in having Mr.
Hunt begin work immediately. However, Mr. O'Malley re-
called that Mr. Hunt completed retirement formalities and
actually started work for the Mullen Company approximately
a week to 10 days later.
2

14-00000
4. Mr. O'Malley stated that contact was maintained
with Mr. Hunt while at the Mallen Company on a continuing
basis, because Mr. O'Malley was interested in Mr. Hunt
for possible referral of other Agency retirees. Mr.
O'Malley also understood that there was Cover and Con
mercial Staff interest in the Mullen Company, and that
Mr. Hunt became instrumental in discussing several aspects
of the cover operations in his capacity as an officer of
the company. Mr. O'Malley recalled referring various
Agency officers to Mr. Hunt for guidance when these indi-
viduals expressed an interest in entering the public
relations field. Mr. O'Malley did recall disappointment
in feeling Mr. Hunt had generally been less helpful on
these occasions.

5. Mr. Hunt contacted Mr. O'Malley on several occasions
requesting referral of retiring Agency employees with
specific qualifications. These instances occurred apparent-
ly after Mr. Hunt had assumed his responsibilities with
the White House. In one instance Mr. Hunt requested re-
ferral of a recently retired Agency secretary. As in
previous memoranda and discussions, Mr. O'Malley was unable
to recall the name of this individual. He did, however,
state that he is quite certain Mr. Hunt turned down the
individual whom he referred. As a point of clarification,
Mr. O'Malley said that this individual had not previously
been known to Mr. Hunt, nor had she previously worked
for him in any capacity. Mr. O'Malley also recalled a
request from Mr. Hunt for an individual having skills in
the area of locks and surreptitious entry. A resume of
Mr. Thomas C. Amato was provided to Mr. Hunt at that time.
It is Mr. O'Malley's recollection that Mr. Hunt specifically
stated that a person with Mr. Amato's qualifications was
needed in connection with a requirement of the Howard
Hughes Organization in Las Vegas, Nevada. Mr. O'Malley
stated the opinion that it was his impression that the
duties involved would include the monitoring of a listening
device in an undisclosed location. Mr. O'Malley reiterated
his understanding that Mr. Amato did not accept Mr. Hurt's
offer of cmployment.

6. Mr. C'Malley then recalled request from Mr. Hunt
for a recommendation of a security service organization
to carry out an electronic countermeasures "sweep." Mr.
O'Malley recommended the Wackenhut Corporation... Mr.
3

14-00000
O'Malley recalled that Mr. Hunt expressed dissatisfaction
with that suggestion in part because of that Mr. ilunt
viewed as that firm's political orientation. Mr. O'Malley
did not elaborate further on that remark. Mr. O'Malley
then suggested the use of Anderson Security Consultants,
Incorporated, a commercial cover entity of the Office of
Security. Mr. O'Malley stated that insofar as this
organization was advertised in the yellow pages and that
Mr. Hunt could be assured of the reliability of the ser-
vices, he felt this to be a reasonable suggestion. Mr.
O'Malley stated that during a subsequent phone call when
Nr. O'Malley asked how his suggestion had worked out,
Mr. Hunt responded, "Yes, they had done a fine job."
At this point. Mr. O'Malley was asked whether or not from
his associations with Mr. Hunt he felt. Nr. Hunt was in
the habit of making glib comments which were not neces-
sarily accurate in order to pass over a subject. Mr.
O'Malley stated that this was categorically so. He said
he was sure that Mr. Hunt had lied to him on a number of.
occasions and that, therefore, he was in no position to
be sure that Mr. Hunt had actually, in fact, used the
services of Anderson Security Consultants. Mr. O'Malley
volunteered the opinion that he suspected the electronic
countermeasures "sweep" was to be carried out in the offices
of the Committee to Re-elect the President.

7. In response to a question as to whether he had
ever referred anyone to McCord Associates, Mr. O'Malley
replied that he remembered having referred Walter Brayden.
Mr. Brayden for a time acted as bodyguard to Mrs. Martha
Mitchell. As an aside Mr. O'Malley mentioned that Nr.
Brayden had refused to carry a firearm in spite of the
fact that Mr. McCord told him he could do so on the author-
ity of the Attorney General. Asked specifically if he had
ever referred either Willian Shea or Teresa Shea to Mr.
McCord, Mr. O'Malley stated that he did not recall specif-
ically referring Teresa Shea and that he was sure that he
had not referred William Shea to him. So, contrary to
previous statements, it is now Mr. O'Malley's belief that
in all probability Mrs. Shea was not referred by this
Agency to Mr. McCord.
4
4

14-00000
8. Retning to Mr. O'Malley's pirious responsibilities
in coordinating funding for the covert action activities
of Mr. E. Howard Hunt, the issue was raised as to whether
or not the funding of Mr. Hunt's projects continued between
July 1965 and September 1966 while Mr. Huat was a contract
cmployce stationed at Madrid, Spain. Nr. O'Malley recalled
that at the time of Mr. Hunt's assignment to Madrid the
statement disseminated for consumption within the Agency
was that Mr. Hunt was retiring. Mr. O'Malley stated that
this was not generally believed. Mr. O'Malley was quite
certain that during this period his office handled no
project funding for Mr. Hunt. In response to specific
question Mr. O'Malley stated that on Mr. Hunt's return to
staff employment the projects and funding which stopped in
July 1965 were again resumed. Mr. O'Malley was not aware
of any project names or funding mechanisms or post-assignment
accountings in connection with Mr. Hunt's activities in
Madrid.
5
Frederick N. Evans
Lawrence J. Howe

14-00000
21 February 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Office of Finance Rocords B. Howard Hunt

1. On the instruction of Mr. Steven L. Kuhn, Chief
of Operations, PSI, the undersigned made an appointment
for the afternoon of 20 February 1974 to interview Mr.
Willian Caufield, Chief, Certification and Liaison Divi-
sion, Office of Finance, and Mr. Joseph Hudson of Finance
on the subject of Mr. E. Howard Hunt. At the outset of
the interview Mr. Caufield advised the undersigned that
instruction had been received from the Director of the
Office of Finance, Mr. Thomas Yale, that discussion on
the subject of Mr. Hunt was to be carried out only with
the Office of the Inspector General. Mr. Caufield stated
that he had informed Mr. Yale of the requested interview
and had received this instruction with the suggestion
that the undersigned contact Mr. Yale directly with any
Inquiry.

2. Accompanied by Mr. Caufield, the undersigned
briefed Mr. Yale on the nature of the request and iden-
tified the "Task Force" effort being undertaken by the
Office of Security in concert with the Offices of the
Inspector General and Legislative Counsel. Mr. Yale
responded that he recognized the legitimacy of the in-
quiry. Mr. Yale explained that subsequent to initiation
of the complete audit being undertaken by Mr. Quinn of
the Audit Staff, the Deputy Director for Management and
Services, Mr. Harold L. Brownman, had requested the
Office of Finance to discontinue their investigation of
Mr. Hunt to avoid duplication. Mr. Yale added paren-
thetically that it was the nature of Finance Officers
not to leave a job half done and that an "informal"
inquiry into Mr. Hunt's financial records had neverthe-
less continued at a more subdued pace.

E2 INPDET
CL BY 011696

14-00000
5. A review of the circumstances surrounding Mr.
Hunt's conversion to Contract Type A employment and
assignment was then undertaken by Messrs. Yalo, Caufield,
liudson and the undersigned. The contract and payroll
filcs of Mr. Hunt were reviewed for possible indications
of the nature of the operational activity undertaken in
Madrid. A review of travel vouchers indicated that Mr.
Hunt and his family made accountings indicating departure
from Washington, D. C., on 5 August 1965 with an arrival
in Madrid, Spain, on 16 August 1965. The costs of this
travel were charged to the budget of the Western Heni-
sphere Division, Ceputy Directorate for Plans, Madrid
Station Support account. A subsequent accounting sum-
marized PCS travel expenses and included a payment for
apartment rental for 16, 17 and 18 August 1965 with a
payment in the amount of $125 to Mr. F. Reid Buckley for
this purpos8.

4. It was determined that an allottee bank account
in Mr. Hunt's name had been established at the Riggs
National Bank of Washington. All salary and other non-
operational reimbursements were made to Mr. Hunt through
sterile check to this account. An oporational account
was established for Mr. Hunt with the Chase Manhattan
Bank of New York City. A review of all payments made to
Mr. Hunt through the Chase bank account through Mr. Hunt's
operational advance subsidiary account, or 1442 account,
had been made. There was no record of any operational
accounts or advances being processed through this channel.
Mr. Yale stated that this fact defined his concern. He
felt that it was inconceivable that Mr. Hunt could have
undertaken operational activity without some transfer of
or accounting for funds. To date, no such records have
been developed. No reference to a project or project
digraph or operational FAN number has been located. Al
expenses connected with Mr: Hunt identified to date were
charged to the Madrid Station Support. A review made of
Madrid Station records has not indicated any "Developmontal
and Target of Opportunity (DSTO)" funds or "Other Opera-
tional Activity (004)" funds expended by or on behalf of
Mr. Hunt. These two accounts would normally be the source
of operational funding not charged against a specific pro-
ject activity.
2
27/SSITIVE

14-00000
5. A review of all of the travel vouchers on record
for Mr. Hunt during this period also failed to identify
a project. In addition to the PCS and return vouchers,
two other accountings are ou record. One accounting
covered a trip by the entire Hunt family to Paris "for
the renewal of visas." A second voucher covered a TDY
trip from Madrid to Washington with return to Madrid
made by Mr. lhunt from 5 January to 3 January 1966. The
voucher states in the space provided for the citation of
the travel order number - "no travel order."
ing was approved and signed by Mr. Thomas Karamossines,
then Deputy Director for Plans. No justification or
statement of purpose for this TDY was given on the account-
ing.
The account-

6. Mr. Yale deterained that further review of possible
sources or identification of operational funding was in
order. Mr. Yale gave instructions that the entire 1442
advance account of Mr. Hunt be reviewed for other possible
channels of funding outside of the New York Chase account.
After discussion, it was agreed that particular attention
be taken to any items connected with publishing or book.
royalties. Mr. Yale noted that the royalty offset waiver
provision anaended to Mr. Hunt's contract was, in his ex-
perience, somewhat unusual.

7. Mr. Yale was informed by the undersigned of the
intention to interview Mr. Edward Ryan, currently Chief,
Division D, who was at the time of Mr. Hunt's Madrid assign-
ment, Deputy Chief of the Western Hemisphere Division. Mr.
Yale suggested that Mr. Davis Powell also be interviewed.
The undersigned informed Mr. Yale that this had been done
and briefed Mr. Yale on the generally negative results of
the interview. Mr. Yale then recommended that Mr. Sam
Halpern be interviewed. Mr. Yale noted that Mr. Halpern
had been an assistant to Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald when the
latter was Chief, Western Hemisphere Division and had ac-
companied Mr. Fitzgerald when he became Deputy Director for
Plans. Mr. Yale recalled that subsequent to Mr. Fitzgerald's
passing that Mr. Halpern remained on the staff and acted as
in Executive Officer for Mr. Thomas Karamessines. Mr. Yale
stated that from his experience, Mr. Karamessines would
have delegated all the arranging of "details" surrounding
un assignment such as Mr. Hunt's to Mr. Halpern. Mr. Yale
offered the parenthetical observation of his surprise at
what