14-00000
104-10215-10128
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: BARNES, WINIFRED C.
DOD FILE 08 97 44

INCLUSIVE DATES:
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:


DATE DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFI
NOT REVIEWED BY HSC

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

14-00000
L

DATE : 28 February 1967
F-8-97-44
CONFIDENTIAL
(When Filled In)
Miami Office
INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM

TO : Director, Domestic Contact Service
SUBJECT: BARNES, Winfred Clark
FILE NO: 496 289 A-89744

1. Reference is made to your request for security checks on the subject
person as a source of intelligence information.
2. This is to inform you that the necessary checks have been completed with
the following results:
a. X No additional information has been obtained, except for such
biographic information as indicated below or in the attachment.
b. Information has been received that Subject was investigated with
favorable results in
c. Certain information has been received and appears in the attach-
ment which your Division will wish to consider in determining
the extent and level of your use of Subject.
3. It is to be noted that our checks were made on the basis of the identifying
information you furnished or in an attachment to this memorandum. Should it be dis-
closed that this information is erroneous or that Subject is known by a different
name, this Division should be notified immediately.

STEVEN L. KUEN
Attachment: Chief, Personnel Security Division
State Passport Report

APPROVED

FORM 1124a OBSOLETE PREVIOUS CONFIDENTIAL
EDITIONS GROCP (9-47)

---

14-00000
L
CONFIDENTIAL

BARNES, Winfred Clark 11 January 1967
#496 289

On January 1967 a passport file of Winfred Clark BARNES was
reviewed at the Passport Office, Department of State. The following
is a summary of the information contained thereins
Date of Birth: 1 ilay 1912 at Gatesville, Texas; verified by
birth certificate

Fathers Shaw Andrew BARNES; Date of Birth: 8 May 1882 at Kennedy,
Texas, current residence not given.
Mther: Velma Elizabeth HARRIS; Date of Birth: 8 March 1888 at....
Thelaza, Texas; current residence not given.

PASSPORT ISSUED: At Miami, Florida on 27 January 1966, #G755310, for
a period of four weeks to visit Mexico, Guatemala,
Costa Rica, Peru, Columbia, Venezuela, Argentina, and
Brazil for the purpose of tourism.
Permanent address: 5350 Southwest 76th Street
Miami, Florida
Mailing address: International Petroleum Company, Ltd
396 Alhambra Circle
Coral Gables, Florida
Occupationt Director
Spouse: Lois Enquist BARNES; Date of Birth: 8 Marcy 1915
at New Haven, Connecticut; current residence
not given; Wed: 17 February 1945; no information
on whether or not marriage has been terminated.

PASSPORT ISSUED: At Miami, Florida on 27 February 1961, #B10331, for a
period of varying from one day to three weeks to visit
Bermuda, Bahamas, Jemica, Trinidad, British Guiana,
Guadeloupe, Barbados and Suriname for the purpose of
business.
RENEWED: At Miami, Florida on 12 May 1964, for a
period of ten days to visit Peru, Columbia,
and other South American countries for the
purpose of business
SUBJECT's first passport was issued at Washington, D. C.
on 21 February 1957, #328617, for a period of indefinite
tire, to visit Bermuda, Hehamas, Haiti, Trinidad, Jamica,
Honduras, El Salvador, Costa Rica, Panama, Nicaragua,
CONFIDENTIAL

---

14-00000
L
'CONFIOC
#496 289
and Cuatemala for the purpose of business
RENEWED: At Havana, Cuba on 2 separate occasions:
13 February 1959 and 5 June 1959, for a period of
approximately two on both renewal forms, countries
to visit and purpose of visit not given.

EAG/nch

APPROVED
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-

---

14-00000
6 December 1966
:
ΣΑΚI FIELD OFFICE

CLEICHAUP
SUBJECT
Ad Hoc Clearance
PEFERENCE
A89744

WINFRED CLARK BARNES
granted ad hoc clearance thr
Security checke vill be completed.
Security Division bea
TROIAL, TROPIE
Security Maleon ricer
SECURITY
Thorne: pat
GROUP I
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNTRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION
:
C-O-N-P-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
SECURITY MESSAGE F 1150

---

14-00000
16 ΝΟΥ 1966
1. SUBJECT'S LAST NAME
BARNES,
2. ALIASES
miazni (Gleichaif)
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 14 November 1966
BIOGRAPHIC DATA
FIRST NAME MIDDLE NAME
Winfred Clark
A-897449
NO.
3. DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH
'1 May 1912, Gatesville, Техав
4. SEX S. CITIZENSHIP
M
6. FULL NAME OF SPOUSE, DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH, CITIZENSHIP
RESIDENCES (Including No., and Street, Zone, R.F.D., etc.)
COMPLETE ADDRESS
7.
FROM TO
Present
5350 Southwest 76th Street
Miami, Florida
US
5.
FROM TO
1964 1966
136284
EMPLOYMENT
NAME OF EMPLOYER
Esso-Inter-America Inc.
1
COMPLETE ADDRESS
Coral Gables, Florida
1961 1964
International Petroleum Co.
Coral Gables, Florida
1960 :
Esso Standard Oil S.A., Ltd
Coral Gables, Florida
1959
Esso Standard Oil (Cuba Div)
1957
Esso Standard Oil, S.A.
Havana, Cuba
1927 1955
Humble Oil Company
EDUCATION (High school, college, graduate work, etc.)
PROM TO
NAME OF SCHOOL
DEGREE OR MAJOR
٢٠٠
1925 1929
Pearsall High School
Pearsall, Texas
1930 1933
University of Texas
Austin, Texas
1955
University of Pittsburg (15 session).
10. ADDITIONAL PERTINENT INFORMATION, INCLUDING FULL NAME. CITIZENSHIP DATA ON PARENTS AND CHILDREN.
FORM 180 USE PREVIOUS
MFG. 4-6
EDITIONS
CONTINUED
CONTINUED
CONTINUED
16 NOV 1966
CONTINUED
(4-43)

---

14-00000
L
MR. WINFRED
CLARK
BARNES
5350 Southwest 75th Street
Miami, Florida
BUSINESS
Subject is General Manager and in Cuba Division at:
S000049 - Esso Standard Oil SA, Havana, Cuba
Subject is now with:
A136284
DIRECTOR!
Esso Inter-America Inc., Coral Gables, Florida
INACTIVE
DATE
14 AUG 1953
INITIALS
BCS
ACTIVATED
0897
DATE 12-13-1066
INITIALS
re

---

14-00000
D
CO-N-F-I-D-E N-T-I-A-L
8-97-Husontel
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Miemi Office
SUBJECT:
Executive Leadership Conferences on
Public Affairs
1 May 1967

1. On Friday, 28 April 1967, the business executives attending
the Conferences for Business Executives on. Federal Government
Operations, conducted by The Brookings Institution, were briefed by
ranking Agency officials.
2. I have attached for your information biographic information
on the executives from your area who were present.

Attachments: a/s
cc: Control w/atts
JRM:mg
James Mauyshet
JAMES R. MURPHY
Director, Domestic Contact Service
L
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

---

14-00000
L
A89744 Winfred
WINFRED C. BARNES
Director
Esso Inter-America Inc.
Mr. Barnes attended the University of Texas.

He began his career with Humble Oil & Refining Company, where he
held various marketing positions before serving in the U. S. Army
from 1942 to 1946. He rejoined Humble as a District Sales Super-
visor at Corpus Christi, Texas, and later held the positions of District
Manager, Assistant Division Manager, and Marketing Manager in
several of Humble's marketing areas. He transferred to Esso Standard
Oil, S.A. in Havana as Marketing Manager in 1937, and was General
Manager - Cuba Division at the time of the loss of that operation in
1960. Upon his relocation in Coral Gables, Florida in 1960, he became
Eastern Region Manager for Esso Standard Oil, S.A. Limited. Mr. Barnes
joined International Petroleum Company, Ltd. as Marketing Coordinator
in 1961 and was elected a Director of that company in 1964. Today he
is a Director of Esso Inter-America Inc., with responsibility for
petroleum marketing, public relations, government relations, and
operations in the Caribbean and Chile.

---

14-00000
INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title
18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to on unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
COUNTRY
Cuba
SUBJECT
REPORT NO.
Attitude of Segundo Cevallos,
Key Official of National Bank
DATE DISTR.
00-B-3.168,138
6 Oct 60
NO. PAGES
One
REFERENCES
DATE OF
INFO.
PLACE &
DATE ACQ.
SOURCE:
Sep 60 and earlier
1.
2.
-Havana/Sep 60
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION
US national, graduate engineer, en official on the staff of a large
oil company.
Source has had years of experience in company operations outside the US
and has been located in Cuba for many years. [Source is normally available
for reinterrogation should this report generate additional requirements.)
!
In Sep 60 I talked to an old friend who was president of one of the US-owned
tire companies recently interevened by the Castro regima. My friend
stated that he had recently contacted Segundo Cevallos, one of the
top officials of the Rational Bank, in comection with obtaining approval
for some of the company's US technicians to take their furniture and
appliances out of Cuba. Cevallos said, "I don't want those technicians
to leave. We need then." At this, the rubber company official stated
that it was too late and that the technicians had already gone.

Cevallos then wade the statement that he was very much concerned about
the flight of technicians of all kinds from Cuba. He said that the
revolution had been fought to give Cuba & more highly developed industry,
but that the technicians were leaving and industry was being seriously
effected.
3. Cevallos then said, "Something is wrong. The revolution has gotten off
the track somewhere." He then added, "I have got to talk to 'Che' about
this."
4. Cevallos is a man of about 60-63 years, and has a very important position,
in that he is in charge of granting foreign exchange. Hy friend said
that Cevallos is a very pleasant individual but seems to be a theorist,
a professorial type who obviously has had little or no business experience.
He has a background as a writer and philosopher, and apparently is
extremely naive as evidenced by his comment that he would talk to "Che"
Guevara about how the revolution had gotten off the track.
-end-
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FBI AEC
INFORMATION REPORT
4
INFORMATION REPORT
NOFORN
NO DISSEM ABROAD
LIMITED
LIMITED: Dissemination limited to full-time employees of CIA, AEC and FBI: and, within State and Defense, to the intelligence components, other
offices producing NIS elements, and higher echlons with their immediate supporting staffs, Not to be disseminated to consultants, external projects or
reserve personnel on short term active duty (excepting individuals who are normally full-time employees of CIA, AEC, FBI, State or Defenes) unless the
written permission of the originating office has been obtained through the Assistant Director for Central Reference, CIA.

---

14-00,000:
:
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws. Title
18. U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or ravelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
C-O-N-F-I-D-H-H-Y-I-A-L
COUNTRY
Cuba
SUBJECT
REPORT NO.
Anti-Castro Attitude of ICP Personnel DATE DISTR.
00-B-3,168,139
6 Oct 60
NO. PAGES
Two
REFERENCES
DATE OF
INFO.
PLACE &
DATE ACQ.
SOURCE:
Sep 60 and earlier
Havana/8ep 60 and earlier
1.
2.
3.
5.
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION
US national, graduate engineer, an official on the staff of a large
oil company.
Source has had years of experience in company operations outside the
US and has been located in Cuba for many years. (Source is normally
available for reinterrogation should this report generate additional
requirements.)
As of Sep 60 there appear to be some significant developments occurring
axong personnel of the staff of the Caban Petroleum Institute. The
Institute has cosasndeered a building of Reso Standard Oil SA for
use as headquarters, and is currently engaged in mixing the personnel
of all three intervened oil companies in the new headquarters.

The shuffling around of personnel has further losered the morale of
the petroleva industry employees, and I have been told that 95% are
strongly in favor of the companies and against the Castro regime.

Since ICP established its new offices, indoctrination sessions of employees
have been scheduled on a twice-a-week basis. The first session was
bald recently and was concerned with the "Colored Problem of the World".
The gist of the remarks of the conference leader was that Cubans were
of Spanish ethnic origin, and because of the close ties of Spaniards
and the Hoors for so many hundreds of years it had to be realized that
all Cubana had colored blood, and should not make a distinction and
should have no prejudices concerning people with colored blood.

The second indoctrination session was headed by an overt Communist fron
the Texas Company. He delivered the straight Party Line, anti-US,
anti-imperialist, anti-sonopoly, "The Soviet Union is the great hope
of the world for peace", and only Communist ideology will survive, etc.
He also stated that, "The Declaration of Havana of Fidel Castro will
be our doctrine," and said that it was desired to obtain the signatures
of the whole population of Cuba to show that everyone was behind this
doctrine. He then said in response to a question regarding what would
happen to those who did not sign, "You are either for us or against us."
6. At this, one of the office girls who had been a strong Fidelista got up
and remarked that such comments reminded her of the Batista days, and she
strongly disapproved of any pressure tactics.
C-O-N-F-I-D-K-H-T-1-A-L
STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FBI AEC 67
INFORMATION REPORT
NOFORN
:
INFORMATION REPORT
NO DISSEM ABROAD
LIMITED
LIMITED: Dissemination limited to full-time employees of CIA, AEC and FBI: and, within State and Defense, to the intelligence components, other
offices producing NIS elements, and higher echlons with their immediate supporting staffs. Not to be disseminated to consultants, external projects or
reserve personnel on short term active duty (excepting individuals who are normally full-time employees of CIA, AEC, FBI, State or Defense) unless the
written permission of the originating office has been obtained through the Assistant Director for Central Reference, CIA..

---

14-00000
7.
8.
9.
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-1-A-L
2-
00-B-3,168,139
One of the male office employees then stood and stated that he agreed
heartily with her, and added that it was not the intent of the revolu-
tion to "get into this sort of business." He then asked, "Why are we
getting all this Communist propaganda and why do we not hear anything about
Jose Marti?" His comments were greeted with applause.

A third zaployee stood up and calked for 45 minutes. He really laid it
on the line concerning the way the revolution had failed the people of
Cuba, and had leaned far too much toward Communism. The conference
leader did not interrupt and following the conclusion of the employee's
remarks did not even ansver. He merely said, "That is all", got up
and walked out. However, the next scheduled indoctrination session
was cancelled.

Although mixing the employees of the three companies was doce deliberately
to break up a feeling of trust among employees who knew each other, and
to introduce a feeling of fear concerning strangers, there has been close
cooperation on the technical level between employees of at lesat two
refineries. For example, technicians at Esso and Shell recently collaborated
in shutting down the refineries without real justification, allegedly
because of Hurricane Donna. When the word got out that the refineries
were shutting down, ICP officials rushed in and protested vigorously that
there was no danger, and that the action should
not be taken. The
technicians then said, "Well, it is too late now," and they kept the
refineries shut down for three full days. Both Shell and Esso technicians
concerned enjoyed this minor act of sabotage hugely.
10. They also cooperated in dealying action when they were ordered to start
the cat plant. LPG is needed badly, so the technicians decided to keep
the unit shut down. ICP officials screamed that it was unnecessary
and ordered them to start, but the technicians said that it was not
practical because it was too difficult, and possibly dangerous, to stop
and start the unit. They said that the shortage of catalysts made it
impossible to figure on keeping the unit going, and so it was not the
right thing to do to start it at all. Consequently they have been able
to keep the cat units shut down completely since the storm.
3
11. One of the top Shell engineers who has participated in such actions
is going to attempt to skip the country as a test, because many other
technicians of the oil companies are desperate to flee Cuba and are
trying to arrange ways and means to do so.
-end-
HOFD RH
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
HO DISSIM ABROAD

Tangu
e-547
ngung
ge
LIMITED

---

14-00000
INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
CENTRAL. INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States: within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title
18. U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
COUNTRY
Cuba
REPORT NO.
SUBJECT
Desire of Oil Industry Technicians
to Flee Cuba/Effect on Production
DATĖ DISTR.
00-A-3,168,137
29 Sijat 60
NO. PAGES
Two
REFERENCES
DATE OF
INFO.
Sep 60 and carlier
PLACE &
Havana/Sep 60 and earlier
DATE ACQ.
SOURCE:
1.
2.
3.
4.
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION
US national, graduate engineer, an official on the staff of a large
oil company.
Source has had years of experience in company operations outside the US
and has been located in Cuba for many years. [Source is normally
available for reinterrogation should this report generate additional
requirements.)
i
A real body-blow could be given the Castro regime if a few selected
technicians in the oil refineries skipped the country. As an example,
at the Esso refinery there are four technicians whose loss would have
a very severe effect on the production of the refinery. These sen are
all young, extremely intelligent, well trained, and are completely
loyal to the company. They have served immediately below the super-
Intendent and the assistant superintendent. These four would be given
immediate jobs in the US, because of their outstanding backgrounde, if
they were able to get out of Cuba.

The top figure of the four is Leon Hequin Maya, who is a specialist in
the Processing Department, one of the most important functions in the
plant. This departmant's responsibilities deal with the physical processing
of the product from crude to the finished material.

Hequin is 32 years old, married, no children, but expecting a child in
Dec 60. He is a graduate of Auburn University, with a degree in chemical
er mechanical engineering. He is a Cuban national, I believe of the
Jewish faith. He is about 5'10", weighs about 160 lbs, has close cropped
black hair, and is a very personable, intelligent young man. He is a
very good leader, and was definitely one of the men on their way up
in the company..
Hequin already has been branded a counterrevolutionary in an official Acta,
and has been taken out of the plant and put into the office. Apparently
the regime wanted to get him away from the production line for fear of
possible sabotage, and also wanted to utilize his undoubted talent and
knowledge of the industry in headquarters.
5. Hequin is extremely eager to get out of Cuba, but he does not have a
police exit permit, and since he has been branded counterrevolutionary
he is afraid he would not get his passport back if he presented it for
a police permit.
STATE ARMY NAVY C-O-N-F-I-DI-N-T-I-A-L
AIR
FB1
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY
INFORMATION REPORT
NOFORN
AEC
PCT SOU
INFORMATION REPORT
NO DISSEM ABROAD
LIMITED
LIMITED: Dissemination limited to full-time employees of CIA, AEC and FBI: and, within State and Defense, to the intelligence components, other
offices producing NIS elements, and higher echlons with their immediate supporting staffs. Not to be disseminated to consultants, external projects or
---

14-00000
CIA INTERHAL USE ONLY
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-H-T-I-A-L
-2-

६.
7.
8.
Another outstanding young man is Eequin's assistant, Jose Ramon Alvarez,
about 31. He is a graduate of Auburu University and is a top flight
engineer. Since Alvarez is single, he says that he will wait until
the others get out of Cuba. He also wants to hang back to be able
to do some sabotage before he makes his departure. He believes that
he will be able to get out on his own.

A third top flight mechanical engineer, who is extremely eager to leave
Cuba, is Santiago Pardo Suarez del Villar. He is about 35, a graduate
of the University of Havana. Pardo is head of Maintenance and Construction,
and is an extremely intelligent and capable engineer. He is about
5'8", weighs about 170 lbs, and has dark black shair and a moustache.

The fourth is Raul Capote Ortiz, a graduate of Louisiana State University
with the degree in chemical engineering. Capote is one of the top
technicians in the Processing Department. He is married, but I do
not know if he has any children.

HOFORN
-end-
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
NO DISSEM ABROAD
LIMITED

---

14-00000
INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
The material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, T.lic
18. U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to on unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
COUNTRY
Cuba
SUBJECT
REPORT NO
Operations of Refineries/Effect of Use DATE DISTR.
of Soviet Crude Oil/Jet Fuel Production
00-B-3,164,609
23 Aug 60
t
NO. PAGES
Two
REFERENCES
5
4
3
2
DATE OF
INFO.
PLACE &
DATE ACQ.
SOURCE:
Ang 60 and earlier
Havana/Aug 60 and earlier
1.
2.
3.
5.
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION
US national, graduate engineer, an official on the staff of a large oil
company.
Source has had years of experience in company operations outside the US
and has been located in Cuba for many years. (Source is normally avail-
able for reinterrogation should this report generate additional requirements.)
As of Aug 60 the three major refineries confiscated by the Castro regina
are operating in fairly good shape. Their principal problem is that
the Soviet crude being supplied is very light and they cannot run as
mich volums because gas pressure builds up. The Esso refinery, for
example, has a capacity of 36 thousand bbls per day on heavy crude, but
26 thousand bbis per day is the best they have besa abie to do on the
Soviet crude, and it has been running at a rate of only 20 thousand bbls.
per doy since 20 Jul 60.

The Soviet crude available to date has been compatible with the refineries
and will not damage them, but in addition to not being able to get as
much volume, the rafineries cannot get as much fuel oil because of light
ends. This is true of all three for refineries.

The refinerets were designed for 26 gravity crude which is fairly heavy.
The Soviet crude is 33 gravity, and has caused an imbalance in that
they are now producing more gasoline than is needed. As a consequence,
Cuba is searching desperately for fuel oil. The USSR has said that it
is not in a position to supply fuel oil and so Cuba has turned toward
Mexico, even to the extent of attempting to arrange deals whereby they
will trade gasoline for fuel oil.

The imbalance of gasoline is indicated by the fact that the Cabaiguan
refinary was shut dowa recently because its gasoline storage was completely
filled.

Cuba will reach a critical point about 1 Sep 60. The Esso refinery slowed
down from 26 thousand bble per day to 20 thousand bbls per day because
it had only a 10-day supply of crede. The supply on hand was sufficient
to last only until 14 Ang, but around 11 Aug the refinery was supposed
to receive a shipment of 80 thousand barrels of crude. However, this
is only enough to operate four days.
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
1
STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FB1 AEC
5
4
19 SEP 1960
3
2
1
INFORMATION REPORT
-INFORMATION REPORT
NOFORN
NO DISSEM ABROAD
:
LIMITED
LIMITED: Dissemination limited to full-time employees of CIA, AEC and FBI: and, within State and Defense, to the intelligence components, other
ollices producing NIS elements, and higher echions with their immediate supporting staffs. Not to be disseminated to consultants, external projects of
reserve personnel on short teren active duty (excepting individuals who are normally full-time employees of CIA, AEC, FBI, State or Defense) unless the

---

14-00000
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title
18. U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 774, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to on unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
COUNTRY
Cuba
SUBJECT
REPORT NO.
00-B-3,164,652
Shortage of Lubricating Oil/
Operating Supplies for Refineries/
Ship Bunkerage
DATE DISTR.
NO. PAGES
23 Aug 60
Two
REFERENCES
DATE OF
INFO.
PLACE &
DATE ACQ.
Aug 60
Havana/Aug 60
5
4
2
1
SOURCE:
1.
2.
3.
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION
US national, graduate engineer, an official on the staff of a large
oil company.
Source has had years of experience in company operations outside the US
and has been located in Cuba for many years. (Source is normally
available for reinterrogation should this report generate additional
requirements.]
As of Aug 60 there is a shortage of lubricating oil in Cuba which will
becoms critical in a fairly short time. Great efforts have been made
by the Castro regime to obtain lubricating oil from US suppliers, and
a vessel, the Mar Carite, has visited a number of US ports attempting
to obtain the oil. However, it has been refused everywhere and had to
raturn to Cubs in ballast. As of 10 Aug 60 it is loading molasses
for delivery to Boston, and will then proceed to Montreal in an attempt
to obtain lubricating oil.
0
A former Esso employee, Frank García, left Cuba on 2 Aug 60 for Mexico
to try to obtain lubricating oil. He is going to visit the Mobile
blending plant, PEMEX, and several others.
Poft. Wallace
Tuba, Okla..
A US national recently employed by ICP to attempt to arrange for the
purchase of necessary supplies and spare parts for the oil industry
has been traveling throughout the SW part of the US, also attempting to
arrange for lubricating oil, but with no success. This individual io
such an unsavory character that it is not beyond the bounds of probablity
that he might "go south" with the funds entrusted to him, which are
considerable.
There are 20 principal types of lubritating oil needed for the total
economy, and the actual status of supply of each is not known. They
may be completely out of some and have six months supply of others.
However, the general story is that there is a "one month supply" of
lubricating oil available.
5. Lubricants for power plants, transportation, and commmications are the
primary concern. They are in critically short supply in diesel lubricants
for engines and heavy equipment, and turbine oil for power plants.
6.
There is no lubricating oil manufactured on the island although the
Castro regime is trying to set up a plant. However, this is a long
range project and takes a lot of time and money..
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FBI AEC
4
5
4.
3
SEP 1960
2
1
INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
NOPORN
NO DISSEM ABROAD
LIMITED
LIMITED: Dissemination limited to full-time employses of CIA, AEC and FBI: and, within State and Defense, to the intelligence components, other
offices producing NIS elements, and higher echlons with their immediate supporting staffs. Not to be disseminated to consultants, external projects or
reserve personnel on short term active duty (excepting individuals who are normally full-time employees of CIA, AEC, FBI, State of Defonse) unless the
written permission of the originating office has been obtained through the Assistant Director for Central Reference, CIA.

---

14-00000
5
4
3
2
1
INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title
18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to on unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-H-T-I-A-L
COUNTRY
Cuba
SUBJECT
REPORT NO.
Friction in New Management of
Esso Refinery
DATE DISTR.
00-B-3,164,653
23 Aug 60
NO. PAGES
One
:
REFERENCES
DATE OF
INFO.
PLACE &
DATE ACQ.
SOURCE:
Aug 60 and earlier
Havana/Aug 60 and earlier
1.
2.
3.
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION
US national, graduate engineer, an official on the staff of a large
oil company.
Source has had years of experience in company operations outside the
US and has been located in Cuba for many years. [Source is normally
available for reinterrogation should this report generate additional
requirements.]
On 1 Jul 60 the Castro regime intervened the Esso refinery in Cube.
The interventor appointed was Commander Olivio Pino, a career
officer in the Cuban Navy. The aumber two man is (fnu) Guardis,
about 35, a formar marketing analyst in the office of the company.
As of Aug 60 there is evidence of definite friction between Pino and
Guardia.

Commander Pino is an intelligent, affeble, and hospitable parsonality.
He wears a business suit, and to the best of my knowledge has never
worn a barbudo" beard.

Guardia, on the other hand, is a real hard-core Communist, who feels
that Pino is too soft and not revolutionary enough. Guardia wants to
