104-10110-10568- 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

Chief, Contact Division
Support Branch
Chief, Chicago Field Office

Hargrave Secret Service

23 Dec 1963
CHI-63-1314

1. Al Thompson recently asked me for my opinion
of Hargrave Secret Service, 6 West Randolph Street,
Chicago, insofar as Cover potential is concerned.

2. Chicago Field Office files contain no infor-
mation on the company. The Chicago telephone directory
reflects the company was formed in 1888 and has offices
and/or representatives in the principal cities of the
world. (See attached Redbook ad).

3. Local FBI contacts had no information concern-
ing the company. Albert Johnson, an ex-FBI man who has
operated a private detective agency in Chicago for years
told me that George R. Hargrave is sole owner and is
the son of the founder. Mr. Johnson described Hargrave
as a big, 250 pound man who has been married five times.
In business, he is the type to put on a big show and is
not averse to putting more men than necessary on a job
in order to charge his client a higher price and profit
accordingly. Mr. Johnson said that, although Hargrave
advertises offices throughout the world he doubts that
these are any more than investigative correspondents.

4. A casual inquiry put to Richard Cain, Chief
Investigator, Cook County Sheriff's Office, brought forth
the comment that Cain distrusts Hargrave. He said he
knows him personally and does not regard him as a discreet
person.

5. In view of the above, Cover may want to reconsider
using Hargrave.

R.F.B. Lohmann

KPEL/jak
Attachment

SECRET

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
declassification
