104-10171-10021 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

DISPATCH

S-E-C-R-E-T

Chief of Station, JHWAVE

Chief, MF Division

SUBJECT: Herrrutibeascon

AR: FYI

1. During your recent TDI to Header you requested all available
information regarding a young Cuban named Land who talked to Identity 1.

2. Identity 2 met with Jose Maria Lasa rutibeasoon and Identity 1 on
2 October 1961. Identity I, apparently, bedosa quested by: ubject's uncle, a
Cuban official in witserland to meet with
mo had recently departed fron
Cuba under a safe conduct agreement.

3. During the conversation LASA Jalboss but his uncle, an old school friend
of Identity 1 and, also, Subject's father, a minor Cuban Government official also
stationed in Witzerland | Both the uncle are father vere in disagreement with
the CASTRO Covernment and there was some leication that one or bota were willing
to defect. Although this point was touched pair obliquely, Identity 2 gathered
that Subject wanted to get his father into this country with mas assurance of
support. The question was not asked directly aci ano comaltments were made ar
implied.

4. After this relatively short talk in Identity l's office, Subject and
Identity 2 went into a conference room where he rave Identity 2 papers dealing
with the organisation and purpose of the Mik (which were already available) and
said he would work with the students in the futreis also expressed a wish
to go to Switserland for the purpose of informing the International Red Cross
group there of the inhumane treatment of Cubar political prisoners.

5. In parting, Identity 2 had a distinct inpression that Subject had not
really accomplished the primary objective of his visit, and as he was returning
to Miani, the fororoing was passed to Icantity 3.

6. For further information on Subject refer to AVE-8363, 9 Oct 61,
DIR-17475, 12 Oct 61; and DIR-23974, 14 or cl. also, Dee copy of GAVA-1631
(Attachment 2).

Distribution:
2- CCS, JHWAVE, w/att. (M.S.C.) and

2 Jan 1962 8 FEB 1953

UPOW-787

201-303133
