104-10107-10089 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
ROUTING
2
TEL 0 0 0 0 0
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR
TELEPOUCH
OGC SUBJ: ITKIN, HERBERT
DISPATCH NUMBER
(FAMU4125
22

INDEX 0. NO INDEX
0 RETURN TO:
0 IP FILES
TO: MELBOURNE CANBERRA

SECRET TELEPOUCH
22
DISP NO: FAMU-4125
E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: 034405
FYI
DATE: 16 NOVEMBER 1973
TO: CHIEF OF BASE, MELBOURNE)
CHIEF OF STATION, CANBERRA)
FROM: CHIEF, EAST ASIA DIVISION
SUBJECT: MR. HERBERT ITKIN
FYI ONLY:
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
ON NOVEMBER 1973 MR. LESLIE V JARVIS ASIO REP IN WASHINGTON, HAND CARRIED TO HAS A LETTER FROM AUSTRALIAN JUSTICE A. R. MOFF-.
ITT REQUESTING INFORMATION ON THE RELIABILITY OF MR. HERECRT ITKIN
WHOM HE DESCRIBED AS A FORMER CIA AND FEI EMPLOYEE. THE FOLLOWING
PARAGRAPHS ARE THE GIST OF MR. MOFFITT'S LETTER, WHICH WAS ADDRESSED
TO "MR. WILLIAM CROSEY, (SIC) DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE:
A. MOFFITT HOLDS A COMMISSION TO INQUIRE INTO THE INFIL-
2 TRATION OF ORGANIZED CRIME INTO NEW SOUTH WALES. IT IS OF SUBSTANTIAL
IMPORTANCE TO HIS INQUIRY THAT HE CONSIDER EVIDENCE GIVEN DURING A
DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

RELEASING OFFICER
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
CROSS REFERENCE
FILE NUMBER
5-2-5/3

OUTGOING TELEPOUCH
COURT CASE IN ENGLAND IN JULY 1971 BY ITKIN.
B. IN HIS TESTIMONY IN ENGLAND MR. ITKIN CLAIMED TO HAVE.
BEEN RECRUITED BY CIA IN AN "UNEDERCOVER CAPACITY" IN ABOUT 1954. HE
CLAIMED HE WAS WITH THE C.I.A. UNTIL MARCH 1963 AT WHICH TIME BY SOME
ARRANGEMENT HE WORKED FOR BOTH THE FBI AND CIA, UNTIL JANUARY 1968.
с. MOFFITT ASKS FOR INFORMATION ON THE STATUS OF MR. ITKIN
DURING THE YEARS 1964 TO 1969 AND FOR COPIES OF "ANY RELEVANT AFFI-
DAVITS OF PERSONS IN AUTHORITY IN THE FBI OR CIA USED IN PROCEEDINGS
IN USA."
D. MOFFITT NOTED THAT IN THE INTERESTS OF PRIVACY HE ROUT-
ED HIS LETTER VIA THE AUSTRALIAN-DIPLOMATIC POUCH, AND ASKED THAT THE
REPLY BE RETURNED TO HIM BY THE AUSTRALIAN EMBASSY IN WASHINGTON.
2. MR. MOFFITT'S REQUEST WAS HANDLESD BY THE OFFICE OF GENERAL
COUNCIL COGC} WHO MADE AVAILABLE FOR MR. MOFFITT COPIES OF THREE
AFFIDAVITS CALL OF WHICH IN PUBLIC DOMAING RELEVANT TO HERBERT ITKIN
BAND HIS AFFILIATION WITH THE CIA. OGC CONCLUDED THEIR REPLY BY SAY-
2 ING THAT HERBERT ITKIN FURNISHED INFORMATION TO THE CIA OVER A PERIOD
OF MANY YEARS, BUT THAT HE WAS NOT SENT TO ENGLAND TO COLLECT ANY

DATE:
ORIG: VA.
UNIT:
EXT:

RELEASING OFFICER
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
CROSS REFERENCE
FILE NUMBER
5-2-5/3

INFORMATION FOR CIA AND HE DID NOT FURNISH THE CIA WITH ANY INFORMA-
TION WHILE HE WAS IN ENGLAND.
3. OGC'S REPLY WAS SENT TO MR. MOFFITT IN THE SAME CHANNELS HIS
REQUEST CAME IN. HQS POUCHING COPIES AFFADAVITS, BOTH LETTERS..
U/S/CO VIA POUCH
E2 IMPDET-H

DATE:DE NOVEMBER 1972
ORIG LANESHER PAK
UNIT: EA/PHE
EXT: 5681/9033
THEODORE G. SHACKLEY, C/EA
RELEASING OFFICER
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
CROSS REFERENCE
COORDINATING OFFICERS
OGC MR. GREANY CIN DRAFT)
CI MR. ROCCA CIN DRAFTI
FILE NUMBER
5-2-5/3
