104-10179-10088
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

049J/JG/T 14-5-5
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 6
ROUTING
DATE 16 DECEMBER 1958 SECRET
TO DIRECTOR
FROM HAVANA
ACTION WI 5
INFO COP, FI, FI/OPS, FI/ROM 3, 2F, PP/PRD, `P/PYD' 2,
PP/PMD, ICD 4, DD/1, AD/CI, S/C ROUTINE
IN 38553
TO DIR INFO SACU CITE HAVA 0693

FORM INTEL
DA 16 DEC

APPR: PARAS 1,4 (2) PARAS 2,3 (3) PARAS 5-6

SOURCE: PARA 1 GEORGE K HARPER, LAS VILLAS PLANTATION
OWNER (F) PARAS 2,3 AMARIA (B) PARA 4 AMDARK-1 (C) PARA 5
HARRY GRAHAM (F) FROM DR MEMBER (F)

1. ERNESTO GUEVARA HAS MOVED WESTWARD. HIS EXACT
LOCATION NOT KNOWN BUT 165 MEN THOUGHT TO BE UNDER HIS
COMMAND ARE CAMPED NEAR MANACAS IN WEST LAS VILLAS.
GUEVARA IMMEDIATE OBJECTIVE SELIEVED TO BE TO CUT OFF
CENTRAL HICHWAY TRAFFIC WEST OF SANTA CLARA. FC: AMBARK-2
CONFIRMS THIS REBEL STRATEGY, SAYS MAY BE PLANNING TRY
CUT HIGHWAY AT SANTO DOMINGO. SC: HEAVY TRUCKS CANNOT.
TRAVEL EAST OF SANTA CLARA. BACKROADS CAN BE USED BY
AUTOS AND LIGHT TRUCKS.

2. 26TH OF JULY REPLACING CTC LABOR OFFICIALS
WITH OWN PEOPLE ON SUGAR CENTRALES WHICH IT CAPTURES.
CONRAD BEQUER DIAZ, WITH HOS IN CIRGA MASTRA, IN OF
THE PROGRAM.
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

14-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
6
ROUTING
DATE 16 DECEMBER 1958 SECRET
TO
FROM
ACTION
INFO PAGE 2
CITE ROUTINE
IN 38553
HAVA 093
TO INFO

3. MANUEL RAY, MRC CHIEF, IS VISITING SIERRA MAESTRA
FOR CONFERENCE WITH FIDEL CASTRO DISCUSS CASTRO DESIRE
DISSOLVE NRC AND INCORPORATE IT INTO 26TH JULY.

4. SMALL FEU FORCE ACTIVE NEAR COLISEO IN MATANZAS.
ARNS SHIPMENT SEIZED IN CAYO HUESO, FLA WEEK 7 DEC
WAS PURCHASED BY FEU FOR USE IN HAVA.

5. BATISTA HAS CONTRACTED FOR SERVICES 2 FRENCH
ARMY OFFICERS EXPERIENCED IN GUERRILLA WARFARE TO
ADVISE CUBAN ARMY.
20-3
SUPDATA: HOS MAY WISH QUERY PARIDON PARA 5.
DISSEN END DEF ORALLY.
RELEASED 1618302

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
