14-00000,
104-10185-10030
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO: WKH

FM: AMS

RE: ZRRIFLE

3 July 1962

1. Per our discussion of 2 July 1962, I expect that we
shall proceed to transfer QJWIN to Baden-Baden per the proposal
in OLLA-1463 dated 2 February 1962. LUXE/0489 dated 19 June
1962 stated that COS would have the full details of the
capital outlay required by 23 June; however, the information
has not been received as of 3 July. The last cable to the
Station, DIR, 18321 told COS to contact you directly on his
arrival on 16 July.

2. With regard to candidates spotted by QJWIN, the
two whom he spotted in Italy a year and a quarter ago can
probably be used if needed, if we can accept the assessments
of them by the Trieste Base contract agent, Magonetti.
Magonetti's assessment is contained in OTRA,27542 dated
10 May 1961. The names of the two French candidates are con-
tained in Q1.1.A 1426 dated 15 December 1961. No action has
been taken on these names regarding tracing or anything else.
My handwritten notes attached to that dispatch contain
fuller descriptions of the two people than appear in the
dispatch.

3. The other spotting effort that can be made is
through Hank Manfredi (TN) 1) in Rome. lank was well briefed
on the qualifications desired and the security precautions
to be observed in the spotting activity. COS Rome has a
copy of the qualifications and restrictions in his safe;
however, if Manfredi is told to proceed with his contact in
Florence, I suggest that he be re-briefed in detail.

4. Frankly, all the rest of the paper in the file is
crud except for the pay receipts which are assembled in one
envelope. I have already given the ZRRIFLE authorization
paper signed by Helms and Skip has been given the QJWIN con-
tract, including the extension to 1 March 1963.

5. The details which have yet to be worked out are
a. The precise method of contact with QJWIN
b. The system of drawing funds for payments to him
c. An emergency contact for him (this should
probably be COS LUXE).

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
31BR

14-00000
6. Despite COS LUXE's viewpoint, I happen to know that
QJWIN can do more spotting in Corsican circles whenever we
want him to.
...
AMS

14-00000
ילתיז
The candidate: no name used; circa 43-45, 1.75-1.78. strongly
built, broad shoulders, circa 85 kilos, slightly oval full
face, blond hair combed straight back thinning in corners,
thinning on top, rosa complexion, no eye color noticed, worker's
hands, nose thin and curved outward a little, thin lips;
chín full but not fat, makes impression of a handwerker; has
been in prison Sante twice (burglary) name does not begin
with A,B,C,D otherwise would have gone to Fresne prison; not
known whether convicted; has own car; free to travel: 5 years
POW in Germany; M. impression: good nerves; composed; can
open usual safe: would work with someone previously unknown
to him; M. would use him; willing to use gun: did not ask
money: Hugo wants his cut. Lives 250-300 km from Paris;
legal occupation unknown. Contact thru flugo: can cut llugo
out with money. This candidate ready any time. llas no
passport, but can get one. Can also get passport under
phoney name. M. Likes this one as candidate
Saw G and G's candidate 28 Aprilwith lokal in Paris; G
contacted this candidate directly; candidate llenri
description: circa 45-48, 1.75
;
1.7S; dark brown hair;
full, deep on forehead; shiny and combed back; half part on
right; brown complexion; not quite square face; brown eyes;
heavy eyebrows dark brown w/verbindung between eyebrows; bridge
of nose depressed, nose somewhat small: normal ears; mouth
schrag when he speaks: small scars on left cheek and small
scar running from middle of nose on left side; brown
hair on hands, no muge); well dressed; hands well kept;
fingertips (red: smokes (French) Ami cigarettes:
-
not a drinker: lives Paris; frequents Bar Le Corsaire, 110
Ave de Suffren; can be found there every day from 4:30 PM;
specialist in safes - own tools; also holdups; in Sante
prison; belonged after war to Lyon St. Etienne underworld;
gave some facts of this which M knows to be true; wanted to
know if should be armed for job ready to go to the end:
has a colleague with whom wants to work; not behing iron
curtair and not in France; would be expensive: has expired
passport, but no sweat in renewing it: impression- would
follow orders; better action man than llugo's candidate, but
not sure whether has safecracking experience to extent
Hugo's man has; las car - Dauphine, beige (?) #24611575
(Paris); not married. V can contact him at tel SUF 46-90--
this is the bar. M told him two weeks to three months (also
told Hugo's man the same but Gaillord's candidate wants
to know in few weeks whether still hope. Could bring both
candidates together into a team.

14-00000
2 may:
1) Santilli couls ust locate liis cousin. Trusto
Marseille afte til huyo + ballastilinting
This contact - built in Hotel Der Globe.
Wwrsille.
1) Santilli met Patorsui, Jerm, married: ix 42-43,
warkson RR in Marseil! – Marlen in Batesisieboben
nezibiltren, solis person can kieplies torque,
(!)
has done hotkups, wear caught, noteveggerator,
good connections in Corsican windevurarld in
"
Milli; ht 1.70-1.172, medium hints, tot
oiled wind, hind on sidesis brown, awal face,
Insomnichi compron (dist ist darbs), brown eyes,
mustests cigarette sucker French & lanean,
POW 40-45, sorting borick & Eiler gent, lives
fue St. Therese; is close friends th
70r8 fue
Siongur
lothing for conditites!!
perrgesse in uctting lumageir Hitp.
Esshil fra Pelix Carlioni (7),
proficiendfargle, Corsican, beintiersilien,
ha à litt neko was verwekid bis potis
in a broddup. f. still lashing hos tilix.

14-00000
-1
f. Malerstands complitet, nhật is sought.
3) Pugs: spirtin her kisseny day in
Transport alko (ofolist) - Time Julietto
Faguill
Jaquillard, 155 Rue de charonne, Paris
Tel. ROG 06-45; met Ruso 29 Apr (cally.
Lenin, from Morälle tell of inter
w. Contrast, himes with Hust & the
M. Ainsin
Hugo!!
good conditate 1/2-3/4 hour
The candidate wo inanel
word; CA. 43-45,
1.75-1.78, strongly miilt, broed sliputters,
ca 85 bites, slightly oval full fore, bloul
hair isumbet stormigtit buch thinning
in corners, thewing ontop,
vora
hands, nose thin & owned outward a
Nittle, then deyir, chin full thist rust
fit, fit make supresiise of in
hankerior; posts hac lien, in preès u
Santé divice name desi inst liegen
-
4
lenglaz GA, B, CD - Audiences wisiell list gove
To foresce prison; mit Bintan listen
:.

14-00000
4
convicted; biasouncer, listing throned; s your
POW in derweiz; M. impression good
nepes, comjerred, can open mind cafe, would
reare not someone precized, wehmern to
bin; M. well ice him; willing to and for,
did not ask money; Hugo wants
his cut time 250-300 km from
Paris, legal occupation malensson,
Contact the Hugo; can aut Puss
wist w/money, Your conditate
reals any thive. Hos ir persport, but
can getone. Can atorget passport
Meter Painy name. M. likes this.
candidate
ome as
Her GT GD candidate 18 liprint
lobal in Paris, & contested this
Candidite leveitty Heure
Cantine; fecerit
12 45-48; 1.75-178; duk brown her
full, diez on furthest thing, conset lists,
half pet on right; brown complicton
mot quite square fad; from enges; yey
darle sunn verligting lethith eyebrows;

14-00000
sowi what
Mosesor
bridge geaf of uso depressed,
small; normal carry seselt mouth.
mell
schräg when he specks; care
on
left cheek & small scar nuniy
from middle of moci on left side;
brown bacion hands, no miss,
well Pressed; hands will hept;
fingertips mereckig, smokes
bym - Avni cigarettes sint a breather;
Iyon ane särit; frequents for he
Miridh
him
CA
Corsaire 110 Ase de saffren;
Can be found these worskas from
4:30pm;
specialist in safes - toits;
uler lisldups; in Santé prison;
iner B Logan-ft-
Ihrung belonged sto
2
S
Etreuse wederensld; gaul seml
feito of this
enrich M kisiw
Tode tote; wanted huger
if steall be armed for fot-
ready its go to the bus; lissa

14-00000
Colleague Wate
whony woute to
skm
blind iron cartin & mest in Frances
would keepperial; lis
fiat no existin
Meived passport, fict
revenireide, it; M. ingereuse, wealt
felleir ordere; elite action insu
white los colierasting experiencelo
extent this swan duas. Fiscar
Dauphine, beige (?), #246/HS
Pauperice
(fari); upt moned, m.can
coutset kiin et til: SUF 46-90-
2
Ca
this is the bar. M. Zoll him
I nelis to 3 mos (alor totd
Hugo's vison the carne) buit
Hacliords considit met
linow in few wielts whitthe
stil hope. Could bring
Covellates gel nito a
Tism
:
