2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
• Do Not Reproduce

DISPATCH

Chief, Nestern Hemisphere Division

Chief of Base, JMWAVE
SLEEST IMATE/
Transmittal of Memorandum of Oral Commitment for Alberto PONZOA y Alvarez

Process MOC

1. Transmitted herewith is the Memorandum of Oral Commitment for
Mr. Alberto PONZOA y Alvares (aka "Junior").

2. Subject was originally a contact of the Havana Station and in the summer
of 1960, using his boat PRCIS made the first of four successful sea rendezvous
operations with MATUSA TIME, He was subsequently forced to escape from
Cuba, in PISCIS, in. December 1960. Since this date Subject has sailed on many
maritime operations in WASP, MATUSA TIME and on several Cuban-crewed
boats. On several occasions he has effected rubber-boat beach landings to meet
reception parties under extremely hazardous circumstances.

3. juci was associated with the AMDIPs but has become
disenchanted with this group because of constant political squabbles and their
lack of ability to perform to his satisfaction. He now wishes to disassociate
himself completely from any Guban political group and desires to place himselí
under KUBARK control.

4. It is proposed to use Subject as a small boat captain in maritime
operations; as an intermediate craft crewman in beach iandings; as interpreter
on American-crewed vessels; to assist in training Cuban, non-English-speaking
crews and to assist generally where and when needed.

END OF DISPATCH

Attachment:
MOC

10 August 61

UFGA-1011

SECRET
