104-10165-10004 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETVRT

On Friday, 19 June, departed Miami for Kingston, Jamaica via
Pan American, leaving Viani at 9:00 AM and arriving Lingston via Montego Bay
at 10:15 AM. This flight contitares to on to San Juan, Puerto Rico, and latin
passengers are commonplace. In passing through inmigration and cusions, it
is necessary to give the immigration inspector the name of a specific botel
or address at which you can be reached in Jamaica.

Obtained rental car from ilertz Car Rental and departed Lingston
Airport at 10:45 AM via Highway A-4 for Fort Antonio of the worth coast. High-
way 1-4 follows the coast around the eastern tip of the island. There is another
route to Fort Antonio, over the mountains, but it is not recomended. As shown
on the standard highway map of the island, there is a small cove atout seven
niles east of Port Antonio desiguated as "Blue Hole". The core is roughly
200 feet wide by 500 feet long, and completely protected from the open sea
and weather. The cove is extremely deep, and is reported to have a zinizum
depth of six feet at the entrance. lidal range appears to be very small, per-
haps one to two feet.

When I arrived at Blue Hole, which is about 2-1/2 hours by
road from Kingston, Robin Voore was tot available: I went into Port Autonio
and secured a roon at the Ponnie Vue Hotel. I returned to blue Hole about
five o'clock and there wet Robin Voore. Wr. Voore owns most of the land
surrounding Blue Hole. with the Jamaican goverment owning the balance. On
the beach facing the sea, Koore has built and operates a bar-restaurant which
he calls the Teahouse of the Blue Lagoon. Tais accounts for the confusion
between Blue Hole and Blue Lagoon. Cu the side of the mountain descending to
the water. Noore has tuilt and lives in a small studio apartment. He also
owns another small house overlooking Blue Hole. This Couse sas occupied teep-
erarily by a girl who was introduced to me as his fiancee. Margot Palzer. and
her mother, Rita Palner. They are supposed to return to their home in Vancouver,
B.C., about the end of June.

About five o'clock I introduced myself to Voore as a friend of
Antonio de la Carrera, and gave him the more with the recognition symbol. We
talked from five o'clock until about 7:30 at which tire ve had dinner av
parted until the next morning at 11:30.

I spent the night at the Bonnie Vue Hotel and noted in passing
that a U. S. destroyer escort based at Guantanamo Bay was anchored in the
harbor for the weekend, with the sailors being given liberty in Port Antonio
This seems to be a common occurrence, and could perhaps be a source of informa-
tion about Cuban patrol practices along the south coast.

Saturday morning, 20 June. met Moore again. and continued our
discussion of the previous day. During our comersation. he introduced me to
Fred Barrett, a native Jamaican (colored). são is in charge of the operation.
of the bar-restaurant. I left Mr. Voore and Blue Hole about 2:00 o'clock and
drove to kingston, catching the 6:30 Fan American flight tack to Miani, via
Montego Bay.

Following my two serious conversations with Voore. plus ny
observations of the mau himself, plus my reconnaissance of the site itself.
I submit the following items of infomation as being of significance:.

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

1. Robin Moore

a. Moore has just returned from Viet Nam where he partici-
pated in the combat operations of the American Special Forces in Viet Nam, after
he had gone through about eight months of training at the Special Forces School
at Fort Campbell, Kentucky. Some understanding of Moore's personality may be
ontained from reading an interview between him and the magazine U. S. News and
Korld Report. which was published recently. and copy of which was left with
Varia. Further understandings and impressions of Noore may be obtained from
reading his previously published took about Jack Youngblood. an American who
participated in the events leading to Castro's overthrow of Battista.

b. In my opinion. Moore has a burning desire to be known
as a tough, two-fisted, rip roaring soldier of fortune. He has participated
in real war in Viet Nam, and has received what is probably the best training
in the world for guerilla fighters. Lamely. the C. S. Special Forces. Tais
includes training as a parachutist. He is inclined to brag. and is probably
inclined to interperate use of alcohol and women. and his judgement of im-
portant matters is probably immature. However. he definitely understands
and is experienced in guerilla fighting, is experienced in military operations,
and must surely understand military security.

c. He is definitely willing to help, but cannot contribute
cash directly; is willing to furnish the use of the guest house on his property
for limited periods of time. Is willing to participate and aid in an operation
to land people on the south coast of Cuba, but is not villing to commit the we
of his property and facilities as a staging area for resupply in the future.

d. Is willing to come to Miami, for conferences if his
expenses are paid.

2. Site Evaluation

a. Blue Hole is an excellent hartor; protected against
all weather. and with six feet of water at the bar. Is surrounded by very
steep slopes, heavily wooded. Dock facilities are presently very meager,
but could be quickly and easily improved. No fuel for a boat is available
at Blue Hole, and at Fort Antonio (the closest source). the fuel available
is diesel fuel or automotive gasoline; no marice white gasoline is available
auywhere in the area. This is a most significant factor in selecting a
suitable boat.

b. The nearest source of food and other supplies is Port
Autonio; Fred Barrett. manager of the Blue Lagoon Club. orders and hauls
supplies from Port Antonio constantly, and could deliver whatever supplies
were desired. Firearms and explosives are not obtainable on the island.
They would have to be smuggled in illegally.

c. A small station wagon is available for transportation,
provided expenses are paid by users.

3. Miscellaneous. Information

a. A local man. George Munroe. is reported to be a very
experienced small boat captain and one who has brought boats down from Miami

on five different occasions. He is reported to be available to serie as
captain on a fishing boat, and to train a crew。

b. The S.S. Frangeline sails every two weeks from Viami
direct to Port Antonio, and could be employed for the delivery of supplies and
even a loat to Robin Moore.

c. Fred Barreti, manager of the bar-restaurant. seers to
be a very capable man. and for an additional $10 per week added to his regular
pay, would be quite willing to assist any operation.

d. A Mr. Anthony Gason. a retired British army colonel,
is the Jamaica representative for TROJAN boats, at a place called Turtle Cove,
between Port Antonio and Blue Hole.

e. The immigration chief for Jamaica is a man by the name:
of George Eubcuks. who is the former chief of police at Port Antonio: Moore
claims that they are very close personal friends.

d. Moore is acquainted with a ran by the name of Mike Hedges,
who is a nephew of Burke Hedges, the American who becaze Cuba's ambassador to
Chile scue years ago. Mike lives in Kingston, and, if he is not a Battista
sympathizer. might prove to be a very valuable connection. The fazily is re-
ported to be quite wealthy, and would establish an excellent cover.

4. Operational Considerations

a. In order to avoid the use of significant names. I
Justructed Voore to refer to Manolo as George King. and the operatios of
landing him in Cuba would be referred to as Operatiouning. The cost likely
scheme seems to be to establish a suitable boat at Blue Hole. with the cover
story to be that it belongs to Gerican friends of Robin Moore. Housing is
available locally for a limited cumber of Cutans, with Moore being able to
accommodate up to six on his own property. The local boat captain, George
Munroe. could be employed as captaiu initially, to train the Cuban crew in
the local marine conditions, as well as serving as an effective cover.
my opinion, it will not be too difficult for persons to enter Jamaica without
difficulty, provided they know a certain minisum amount of English.

In
I think a suitable location could be found for radio
transmission and reception facilities on the hills surrounding Blue Hole, but
this would have to be examined by someone skilled in radio techniques. Mateo
would be excellent.

In summary, I would say that Robin Moore aud his property and
buildings at Blue Hole would serve as an excellent base of operations. but that
the boat necessary for the operation wuld have to be acquired and equipped
in the states and shipped down there, except for the remote possibility that
a suitable boat could be found in Kingston. I think a headquarters could be
established at small cost through oore's good offices, and I think that Rudy
would be a good choice to coordinate the initial operations there.

[Jack Reed
91-353107
1/20