104-10006-10247
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
SECRET
FROM: (Requesters name)
BRANCH
ROOM
BADGE NO.
NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST
EXTENSION
DATE
RID CONTROL NO.
TO
TUBE
ROOM
DATE
INITIALS
RID/INDEX
DT-5
REQUESTER
RID/FILES
DT-6
REQUESTER
RID/ANALYSIS GT-7
RID/201
DW-6
RID/MIS
GT-6
RID/INDEX
DT-5

SUBJECT TO BE CHECKED
SURNAME
(All spellings)
D'EDKOV, Roman Fedorovich er Vilasa Nikolaevna
SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE CHECKED
AKA, ALIASES
OTHER IDENTIFYING DATA (Occupation, sex, CP membership,
I. S. affiliations, etc.)
Poss. at soo. Eulest. Ind
RESIDENCE
New Delhi, Ind
SEX DATE OF BIRTH
PLACE OF BIRTH
CITIZENSHIP
USSR
Minse USSR

RESULTS OF RID/INDEX CHECK
COMMENTS
NO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION
CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS
IN ALL CASES
1. Use gummed label; type or print all
entries.
2. Upon receipt of index card reproductions
draw a green diagonal line across the
items you do not want.
3. Edit (use green) the reproduced index
cards to indicate:
(a) cards to be destroyed (mark with
green D and note reason for destruction)
Examples: document destroyed; duplicate
or less informative than retained in-
formation; information of no CS value.

(b) corrections and additions, inclu-
ding infinity symbol ∞ when card in-
cludes all facts contained in the
document.

Note 1. Records of COI, SSU, OSS and CIG
are in RID/ARD, and those that meet
indexing criteria in CSHB 70-1-l are
carded in the CS Main Index. If you
believe there could be additional in-
formation of value in these records,
you must request an Archives Index
search.
201 CONSOLIDATION
1. Return this form with the card repro-
ductions, also return pertinent documents,
aperture cards and the dossier if a 201 on
the subject exists.
2. For each document to be included in the
consolidation (i.e., copy or cross reference
to be placed in the 201 file), green D the
corresponding card and check (a) or (b)
below:

(a) Consolidate into
201-
(b) Open 201 file on subject.

RESTRICTION (If any)
CRYPTONYM
OTHER INTERESTED DESKS OR STATIONS
ASSIGNED
YES
NO
FILE TO
BE KEPT
RID
DESK
Note 2. Information concerning foreign
public personalities (except mili-
tary) may be available in BR/OCR
x7997.
DATE
SIGNATURE OF RECORDS OFFICER

13-00000

One Roman Fedorovich DEDKOV, born 28 March 1927 in Ariansk, USSR,

and his wife Vilasa Nikolayevna DEDKOV, born 31 December 1930 in Minsk,
USSR, applied for were listed as applicants for entry visas to Indiad
sometime prior to April 1962. DEDKOV, who was issued Soviet passport
number 207461 on 17 September 1960, was scheduled to arrive in New Delhi
for two years as an English language teacher at the Soviet Embassy.

It is not known whether or not DEDKOV actually arrived in New Delhi.

Not at sent because it shows lioman to Indonians, aaring
"Home List" nut classified.
SCAT
10 AUG 1964

13-00000

INDIA 1

DEDKOV, Roman Fedorovich

Subj scheduled to arrive New Delhi for two years as an
English teacher at the Soviet Embassy; Ppt 207461 iss
17 Sept 60 (Mos Comment: Subj is presumed to have arr
sometime after sept 60). NBDA-8509, 24 Apr 62

Wife: Vilasa Nikolayevna (DPOB: 31 Dec 1930; Minsk)

201-756978

DPOB: 28 Mar 1927; Ariansk
