# 1104-10076-10372
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: UMWAVE

ACTION: SAS 8

INFO: ADDP, 2006, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, FI 1, FI/D 2, FI/INT, FI/LAN, WH 1, 0/1, AD/OA 2, AD/NE, AD/RR 3, NR.

SECRET 120028Z

TE WAVE 0924

INTEL TYPIC

TDCS

12 DEC G4527 63 IN 78734

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

SUPDATA: AMLISP-1 IN SW MSG 315 DTD 7 NOV 63 RECD FROM TRANSLATION 30 NOV 63.
SUBSOURCE IS REBECA (ALBERT) WHOSE FRANCE'S UNCLE, JUAN FRANCISCO HERNANDEZ (PER SW 328 DATED 28 NCV), IS A NOTARY WHO RESIDES NEAR TORRENS AND WHO REPORTED OBSERVATIONS OF TRAFFIC. FIELD COMENT.
SHOE RID: INDEX. FILED 120028Z.

REPORT CLASS: SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM CONTROLLED DISSEM CUBA

SUBJ: TRUCK TRAFFIC AND TUBE-LIKE OBJECTS SEEN ENTERING TORRENS BASE

DOI: 9 OCT - 7 NOV 63 PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (30 NOV 63)

UFG-4246

SOURCE: A FORMER CUBAN GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE WHO HAS THE

COMMENT: THE ATTACHED PORTION OF THIS CABLE HAS BEEN SANITIZED BY THE AGENCY PRESIDING OVER THE ACTION UNIT.

RELEASING INFO:

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

BASED ON:

PRECEDENCE: ROUTINE, PRIORITY

---

14-00000

ELEC RAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

COUNTRY:

REPORT NO. TOCS:

DATE DISTR:

PRECEDENCE:

REFERENCES: IN 18134

DATE OF INFO:

PLACE & APPRAISAL:

FIELD REPORT NO:

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

1. AS OF 7 NOVEMBER 1963, AFTER 10:00P.M. ALMOST EVERY NIGHT TRUCKS AND TRAILER TRUCKS COVERED WITH CANVAS WERE OBSERVED TRAVELING TOWARD TORRENS, THE FORMER REFORMATORY ON THE WAJAY HIGHWAY SOUTHWEST OF HABANA.

2. ON 11 OCTOBER SIX LARGE TRAILER TRUCKS ENTERED TORRENS AND ON 9 OCTOBED TEN MORE OF THESE LARGE TRAILEN TRUCKS ENTERED THE EASE. AN UNIDENTIFIED DRIVER OF A VEHCILE TRAVELLING BEHIND ONE OF THE TRUCKS REPORTEDLY OBSERVED TUBE-LIKE OBJECTS WHICH PROTRUDED AT LEAST ONE METER SEYOND THE TRUCK BED OF ONE OF THE TRAILERS, WHEN BY CHANCE THE WIND BLEW TO ONE SIDE THE TARPAULIN COVERING THE TRAILER'S CARCO.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

ELEC RAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

---

14-00000

SECRET
TDCS: 78734

FIELD COMMENT: THE TORRENS SURFACE-TO-AIR MISSILE ASSEMBLY AREA WAS ACTIVE DURING THIS PERIOD, ACCORDING TO A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE.

FIELD DISSEM: NONE.

END OF MESSAGE

ECRET
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
