2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

BOSSE SELECT COÆPIUTTEE ON ASSASSIGATIONS STAMT ACTRERS

FILE TITLE/NFIBER/VOLUMN: KFACTOR
Photographic Surveillance Operation
Folder 11, 50-6-74/3 Operations

INCLUSIVE PATES: 1958 THRU 1973 (TERMINATES)
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: Archives (Job no. 75-970)

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE RECEIVED RETURNED | REVITUSED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIALL.
---|---|---|---
22 JUNE 78 22 JUNE 78 | DAN HARDWAY | Dan alway
28/8/58 28JUNE 78 | A MACAUAY | Maculay
2/ THE 20 | DAN MACAUAY | Dan Macaulay
25 JUL 1978 25 JUL 1978 | HARDWAY | Handivas
15101.78 15101.78 | DAN HASDIWAY | Hardway
12/20/78 12/20/78 | HARDWAY | Handway
1/マーミー 1/マーミー | JENZMAN | Janaman
20 | Berk | Berk
---|---|---|---

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.
:
FILE NO 50-6-74/3

OTHER AGENCY DOCUMENTS
(2 ENCLOSED)

SECRET

(Headquarters component)
WH/1

TO : IP/AN

10 : (Station/Base)
Mexico City

COMPLETE ITEMS I THROUGH 12.
FROM: (Division)
WHD

INFORMATION FOR REQUESTERS

ITEM 3-ALL FILE TITLES MUST BE STERRE SINCE THEY WILL
APPEAR ON THE FIELD COPIES AND ON MACHINE LISTS.

ITEM 6-ALL REMARKS MUST BE STERRE
ITEM 7 AND 8-USE FIRST THREE LETTERS OF DISPATCH SYM-
BOLS FOR FIELD STATIONS AND LIST HEADQUARTERS ELE
MENTS ACCORDING TO ESTABLISHED NUMERIC CODES.
ITEM 10-ENTER OLD TITLE WHEN AMENDING A TITLE, CITE
ANY FILES. SUCH AS 201 OR PROIECT FILES THAT ARE RE-
LATED TO THE FILE COVERED BY THIS REQUEST ITEM 10 MAY
ALSO BE USED TO GIVE REASONS FOR THE ACTION BEING RE-
QUESTED. TO IDENTIFY THE TYPE OF MATERIAL TO BE PLACED
IN A FILE OR TO MAKE OTHER EXPLANATORY REMARKS.

ITEM 11-A RECORDS OFFICER MUST SKIN ALL FILE ACTION RE
QUESTS CONSULT YOUR MO ON ANY PROBLEMS THAT ARISE.

INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE
1. TYPE OF FILE | 2. COUNTRY NUMBER | CODE IFILE NUMBER | TSPECIFIC SUBJECT NUMBER
---|---|---|---
SUBJECT | 050 | CATEGORY NUMBER 006 | 074/3
PROJECT |  |  |
---|---|---|---

3 FILE TITLE (SPECIFIC SUBJECT VECTS LIMITED TO 15 SPACESI
KDFACTOR
4. ACTION REQUIRED
OPEN FILE | ANALYSIS ACTION | DISPOSITION
---|---|---
AMEND FILE TITLE | CLOSE FILE INDICATE DISPOSITIONI | REOFFEN | RETAIN | DESTRUCTION RECOMMENDED
THRU DATE
6 REMARKS IFOR FIELD DISTRIBU:וא

7. INTERESTED STATIONS PROJECTS ONLY)
HMM

8. INTERESTED HEADQUARTERS DESK LIST ACTION DESK FIRST)
050

9. FILES ACTION
HOLD IN | RESTRICTED | PREPARE FOLDER AND | CHARGE PERMANENTLY TO
CS FILES X |  | UNRESTRICTED | SEND TO REQUESTER | OFFICER & DESKI

10. COMMENTS INCLUDE SPECIAL HEADQUARTERS ROUTING INSTRUCTIONS)
۱۱۰
ENDORSEMENT
SIGNATURE OF BRANCH/DESK R. O.
EFFECTIVE DATE
23 July 1923

12.
COORDINATION
SIGNATURE OF BRANCH/DESK R. O.
(WHEN APPLICABLE)
13
RID APPROVAL
REQUEST APPROVED BY

CODE (FILE) NUMBER
RM 812
-63 50
06 7413
38
1-CS COPY

SECRET

ABLA BEL OFSSEM BY,  
ERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED.
SECRET
.....
....
QYANGE COPY ISSUED SLOTTER
CTION UNIT
WH8
ICTION
923
FILE.
AT
VEN AN DOO SBS F/
Anpo, chcilops, ci/te
T 182863
PAGE 01-01
IN 895416

TORI1920502 APR 73
MEXI 23439

SECRET 1919152 APR 73 STAFF
CITE MEXICO CITY 23439

TOI DIRECTOR INFO DIRTECH, PANTECH,
REDLEG KDALCOVE TECHS

REF: MEXICO CITY 22982 65550-6-74/3
(IN 550655) 50-6

1. KDALCOVE PHOTO EXPERIMENTS. NOW CONCLUDED. TEST
PHOTOS AND INSTALLATION DETAILS ARE BEING FORWARDED BY
DISPATCH ALONG WITH REQUEST FOR APPROVAL TO INSTALL CLOSED
CIRCUIT TV TO MINIMIZE OPERATOR FATIGUE AND MAXIMIZE OP
EFFICIENCY, ALTHOUGH STILL TROUBLED AT TIMES BY TRAFFIC
AIR POLLUTIONS OVERALL PRODUCT IS GOOD QUALITY AND FUL
FILLS OUR REQUIREMENTS.

2. PER DISCUSSIONS WITH TOY MKSPICE TECHS. TV
SYSTEM ENSTALLATION APPEARS FEASIBLE, ALSO GOOD POSSIBILITA
THEY MAY HAVE NEEDED EQUIPEMENT WHICH COULD BE MADE
AVAILABLE ON EXTENDED LOAN BASIS. IF APPROVED, NKSPICE
PHOTO TECH WOULD BE REQUESTED ASSIST IN INSTALLATION.

3. FILE: 50-6-74/2, E2, IMPDET

SECRET
RECORD COPY
AN
ABX
XG
DES SYD
FF
Qu'll!

50-6-74/3
19 APR73

CABLE SECOFTARIAT DISSEMINATI
PERSON/UNIT NOTΙΡΙΣΟ
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAS COP
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY

SECRET
(When Filled In)

ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
RLOTTED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
DISSEM BY
)
ACTION UNIT
WHB
ACTION
797
FILE, VR
//AN, 000, 000, c/01/a/ie, e/fh-2, 5585

SECRET 0600332 MAR 73 STAFF
NEXI
CITE MEXICO CITY 22502 (ROSTEDT ACTING)

TO: DIRECTOR INFC DIRTECH, PANTECH.
0
RYBAT REDLEG KDALCOVE TECHS
:

REF: MEXICO CITY 22495820452)
)
1. KDALCOVE PHOTO BASEHOUSE OPERATIONAL 1 MAR 1973.
KDALCOVE-1 AND 2 GIVEN ON SITE TRAINING AND BRIEFING 28 FEB
BY OLIVER J. MANKUNAS AND STATION TECH CHARLES F. HIPPEN.
KDALCOVE-1 TOOK FIRST OPERATIONAL FILMS FOLLOWING DAY AND
PRODUCT WAS RETRIEVED USING KDALCOVE-2 AS CUTOUT. ALTHO EARLY
MORNING PHOTOS WERE EXCELLENT QUALITY, HEAVY BUILDUP OF TRAFFIC
AIR POLLUTION BY MID-MOARNING SERIOUSLY AFFECTED PHOTO DEFINITION.
BEFORE DAYBREAK 5 MAR, MANKUNAS AND HIPPEN AGAIN RETURNED TO
PHOTO SITE TO TEST VARIOUS FILTERS AND SPEED SETTINGSSIN EFFORT
) TO ALLEVIATE PROBLEM. TEST PHOTOS TAKEN WITH DARK ORANGE HAZE
FILTER SHOWED IMPROVEMENT AND PRODUCED USABLE PRODUCT. WE INTEND
TO CONTINUE EXPERIMENTING TO OBTAIN OPTIMUM RESULTS. TEST PHOTOS
AND INSTALLATION DETAILS WILL BE FORWARDED BY POUCH.

2. FILE: 50-6-74/3. E2, IMPDET..

SECRET
JES APD
+

CS.COPY
SECRET
-EAR 1973
Factor
50-6-74/3
:
:

CIRIO
UNITI
CATI
じってい
R.SWIDER:1f
WH/1
9354
5 February 1973
CABLE BLCRETAMIAT DISSEMINATION
DY13
COVE
TNFO
FILE, VR.
TO
MESSAGS FOR 10
TOTACEpicio

SECRET
INDEX
NO INDEX
RETURN TO
FILE IN CS FILE NO
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN DY

6
0
DOC. MICRO. SER.
BRANCH
FEB 15 19/3
MICROFILMED
FILE RID
(pics)
(classification)
SECRET
MEXICO CITY
RYBAT TYLOTE REDLEG KDALCOVE
REFS: A. MEXICO CITY 22495 (IN 820452)
Toate and time
Ircterence asmber)
:
CITE DIRECTOR 367346
0273 17122

7
AN
AB

B. DIRECTOR 362309
EX
DESINED

1. APPRECIATE REF (A) DETAILS.
CONCUR IN YOUR PLAN.
2.. FILE: 50-6-74/3; 50-6-58/3.
E2, IMPDET. WN-SISM.

END OF MESSAGE.
WH COMMENTS: Ref A requested Mexico City provide details
desirability one safesite over another.
Ref B complied with Ref A request.

DIV/D CIB Anita Potocki - in draft

Th. Nath
THEODORE G. SHACKLEY
C/WHD
51/3
WAPILS NOTICE

COORS COPYFFICERS
SECRET

Factor
Risfacile
RAYMOND J. SWIDER
AC/WH/1

LX-2 CLASSIFIED B
AFDIR WN. SISM

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
50-6.74/3
7 FEB 1973
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
COPY NO.
2
:

CODE SCRETARIAT CISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
IVIAL CUPS
SECRET
(When Filled)

ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIRITED
YULON AND/OR INITIAL-SEAN BY

7
BY
AT:
DISSEM BY
ACTION UNIT
ACTION
578
PER
FILE, VR
DOC. MICRO. SER.
MAR 1 9 1973
MICROFILMED
CIPIAN DOP ADOP csbo / SB 5 (WH. B
da /F12

SECRET 3100362 JAN 73 STAFF
CITE MEXICO CITY (22495 MEXI

TO: DIRECTOR.
d
RYBAT TYLOTE REDLEG KDAL COVE
REF A. DIRECTOR 362309
B. MEXICO CITY 22429 ) 815792 بذا(

820452
M
1. IN RESPONSE REF A QUESTION, AVAILABILITY IS MAIN
FEATURE, BUT EASE IN ADMINISTRATION AND SECURITY ARE ALSO
FACTORS INFLUENCING OUR PROPOSAL TO COMBINE PHOTO OPERATION
WITH KDVAULT TECHNICAL OPERATION. APARTMENT UNDER EARLIER
CONSIDERATION WILL NOT BE AVAILABLE UNTIL PROBABLY SOMETIME
IN MAY, AND WE DO NOT NOW HAVE ANY SUITABLE CANDIDATES TO
TAKE POSSESSION WHEN IT BECOMES AVAILABLE. COMBINING BOTH
OPERATIONS WILL REDUCE NUMBER ASSETS INVOLVED, COSTS, AGENT
MEET INGS AND PROJECT ADMIN. SECURITY WILL BE ENHANCED BECAUSE
TWO ACTIVE SITES IN SUCH CLOSE PROXIMITY CKPOLAR INSTALLATION
WOULD DOUBLE COVER PROBLEMS AND DOUBLE NUMBER OF CLANDESTINE
MEETINGS TO RETRIVE PRODUCT.

2. IN SUM, BOTH APARTMENTS IN QUESTION HAVE ESSENTIALLY
SAME DESIRABILITY FEATURES FOR KDVAULT OPERATION.
HOWEVER,
AN
AB
IN
PS
DES: NFD
Fr
UH

150-6-58/3
SECRET
31 JAN 1973
50-6-74/3

LAULE UCUNCIARIA VIVOCHAINN
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
ATIC MEJMUL
IVIAL LU
SECRET
(When Filled In)

2

6
3

7
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED

REFRUDUCTION OF THIS COPY FRON
DISSEM BY
ACTION UNIT
ACTION NO
AT
PER
FILE, VR
PAGE 2 MEXICO CITY 22495 SECRET
BELIEVE ACQUIRING BOTH APARIMENTS FOR SUPPORT ACTIVITIES NOT
JUSTIFIED BECAUSE OF MANPOWER DRAIN AT TIME WE NEED EMPHASIS
ON RECRUITING MORE AND BETTER ACCESS AGENTS AGAINST PRIORITY
TARGETS.

3. FILE: 50-6-74/3; 50-6-58/3. E2 IMPDET.
SECRET

SECRET.
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
GROUP
SSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPES
ROUTING AND OR FOTBALS-SEEN BY
SECRET:
(When Filled In)

1
5
2
DELICATION
RE PRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
6
7
8
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
CWHKSB
SLOTTED
✓ AT 1635
PRECEDENCE
DISSEM BY
ACTION UN
C/WH8
ACROYA
668
PER
FILE. VR
//AN C/485 act

SECRET 15150 JAN 73 STAFF
MEXI
CITE MEXICO CITY 22308 (ROSTEDT ACTING)
TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR.
0
RYBAT REDLEG KDFACTOR

iP
DOC. MICRO. SER.
APR 1 01973
807463

MICROFILMED
REFS: A.
DIRECTOR 358750
B.
MEXICO CITY 2230780642

1. APPRECIATE YOUR RAPID RESPONSE PER REF A. SUBJ
REFS HAS OTHER COMMITMENTS WHICH PRECLUDE HIS OCCUPANCY THIS
APARTMENT. HE WILLING SIGN LEASE, BUT IN VIEW HIS POTENTIAL
FOR OTHER OPS WE ARE RELUCTANT HAVE HIM DO THIS. THUS, WE
HAVE INSTRUCTED KDADAGE-42, IN ALIAS, TO TRY AND TIE UP
APARTMENT LONG ENOUGH TO ENABLE US FIND SUITABLE CANDIDATE TO
LIVE IN APARTMENT AND PERFORM DESIRED OPERATIONAL TASKS. THIS
NAY BE FEASIBLE SINCE PRESENT APARTMENT TENANTS DID NOT FOLLOW
THRU ON ORIGINAL PLANS TO VACATE 14 JAN. WILL ADVISE DEVELOP-
MENTS. VIEW ABOVE, YOU DO NOT NEED TO AMEND POA AS REQUESTED
REF LA

2. FILE: 52-6-74/3; 201-906628. E2, IMPDET.
SECRET
A3

201-906628
CS COPY
SECRET
50-6-74/3
156 JAN 1573
:

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
TOTAL COPIES 21
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY

CIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
(When Filled In)

Aumann
Anod

REPROCUCTS OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

2
AT
0215

DISSEN BY 25
PER
ACTION UNIT
148
FILE. VR
ACTION NO
565
PRECEDENCE

(C/IP/AN) C/CI, C/F12, dses, espe

SECREI 1301392 JAN 73 STAFF
MEN
CITE MEXICO CITY 22307 (ROSTEDI ACTING)

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.
RYBAT REDLEG KDFACTOR
0
REFS: A DIRECTOR 328305

B. MEXICO CITY 21273 (IN 727027)

C. MEXICO CITY 21713(IN 76/220)

RP
DOC. MICRO. SER.
AN
AB
APR 1 01973

MICROFILMED

IN-
DESINFD
2.
Wit/l

1. REQUEST YOU AMEND POA ON SUBJECT REF A AND GRANT POA ON HIS
WIFE TO PERMIT THIS COUPLE TO OCCUPY AND USE APARTMENT CITED BELOW
FOR OBSERVATION AND PHOTO POINT AGAINST CKPOLAR MISSION.

SUBJECT REF A NO LONGER NEEDED FOR USE OUTLINED REF B SINCE ANOTHER
MORE SUITABLE CANDIDATE AVAILABLE. NEED FOR URGENT APPROVAL
EXPLAINED BELOW.
2. APARTMENT IS ON THIRD FLOOR OF MENTIONED REF C BUILDING
WITH EXCELLENT VIEW CKPOLAR MAIN GATE. TEST PHOTOS TAKEN AND
INDICATE SITE SUITABLE FOR USE. THIS SITE WILL REPLACE FORMER
KDABSINTHE PHOTO BASEHOUSE. XDADAGE-42 BRIBED RENTAL SECRETARY TO
HOLD APARTMENT FOR HIM UNTIL 15 JANUARY. SAID HE HAD OUT OF TOWN
FRIENDS INTERESTED THIS LOCATION. WE DOUBT HE CAN PERSUADE SECRE-
TARY TO KEEP APARTMENT OFF RENTAL MARKET BEYOND 15 JANUARY.

3. MARRIED COUPLE ORIGINALLY VETTED BY US AND HELD IN RESERVE

:1201-906628.
CS COPY
SECRET
13 JAN 1973
50-671/3
1
:

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY

SECRET
(When Filled In)

5
6
7
a
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
BY:
AT:
DISSEM BY
ACTION UNIT
ACTION NO
FILE, VR

PAGE 2 MEXICO CITY 22307 SECRET

FOR THIS PHOTO OPERATION (SUBJECTS OF REF C) WERE, AS YOU KNOW,
DIVERTED LAST WEEK TO OCCUPY LP FOR MPCHEEX AUDIO OPERATION.

4. WE HAVE NOT YET ASKED SUBJECT REF A AND WIFE IF THEY ABLE
AND WILLING RUN PHOTOPOINT FOR US, BUT OLIVER J. MANKUNAS WHO
KNOWS THEIR PERSONAL AND FINANCIAL CONDITION BELIEVES THEY WOULD
WELCOME OPPORTUNITY.

5. REQUEST APPROVAL PROCEED BY PRIORITY CABLE. NEED APPROVAL
PRIOR COB 13 JAN. SUGGEST ASSIGN NEW CRYPT TO THIS OPERATION.
WILL FORWARD COMPLETE PRQ I AND II ASAP.

6. FILE: 50-6-74/3 201-906628 E2, IMPDET.
SECRET
103/11
2. Ad 112 배
103/01
ELES

SECRET

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO DIDEXING REQUIRED
TO
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

Chief, Soviet Bloc Division
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
INFO.
CAN RIDGE INDEXING

Acting
Chief of Station, Mexico City
MICROFILM

KDFACTOR Operational Report, 1 March 1972 through 31 July 1972
FROM
SUBJECT

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES

ACTION REQUIRED: None; for your information and files.

: ΗΜΜΑ-41,734, 10 March 1972 (Previous Report)
REFERENCES
INTRODUCTION

1. The KDFACTOR Project has been terminated because of develop-
ments reported in other channels. This will be the last of the opera-
tional reports forwarded to Headquarters and primarily a wrap-up of
developments to date.
OPERATIONS

2. The KDFACTOR Project supported two visual and photographic
surveillance points (KDLITERAL and NDABSINTHE) directed against the
MHIHARSH installation. Operations from the KDLITERAL surveillance
point were suspended on 4 July 1972, the equipment removed on 7 July,
and the operator, KDFACTOR-2, terminated the same date. Operations
from the KDABSINTHE surveillance point were suspended on 28 July, the
equipment removed on 29 July, and termination of KDFACTOR-5 and his
family accomplished the same date.
ADMINISTRATION

3. Oliver J. MANKUNAS continued to have responsibility for
inside administrative chores and agent handling throughout the period.
Processing of the photo product was accomplished inside the Station.
PERSONNEL
:
4. The project included five salaried assets.
KDFACTOR-2
operated the KDLITERAL basehouse. NDFACTOR-5 operated the KDABSINTHE
basehouse with the assistance of his wife KDFACTOR-6 and his two sons
KDFACTOR-8 and 9. Both KDFACTOR-2 and -5 have served BKTRUST in
their photo specialty since 1957.

CS COPY
DISTRIBUTION:
Orig & 1 - C/WHD
1 - C/SBD
CROSS REFERENCE TO
FILE

EXEMPT FROM GERERAL DECLASSIFICATION
OF. E. 0.-11652, EXENFEISS CATEGORY:
§ 58,1).(2), (3) ar (4) is ene or more)
AUTOMATICALLY GEOLISCIFIED ON
SPOTL
DISPASMODERN #vent)

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES
AND METHODS INVOLVED

SYMBOL
ΗΜΜΑ-42,197

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
DATE
I August 1972
HOS FILE NUMBER
50-6-74/3 acti

CONTINUED

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
DISSHTON SYMBOL AND NUMBER
ΗΜΜΑ-42,197
5. KDFACTOR-2 will continue to reside in the NDLITERAL building,
as part of his termination agreement, until probably sometime in
December when he will move to new quarters of his own. The KDLITERAL
building (MEXI-03, Unit 15) is part of the KDVAULT complex of build-
ings which will be disposed of as reported in other channels. If this
occurs before December, KDFACTOR-2 will move at the time of disposal.

6. KDFACTOR-5 and his family will vacate the KDABSINTHE apart-
ment o/a 31 August. KDABSINTHE is located in a building owned by
KDABBEY who plans to dispose of his equity in the property in the
near future.
PRODUCTION

7. KDLITERAL: Before being closed down, KDLITERAL, through
KDFACTOR-2, was the source of within-the-compound photographic cover-
age of PCS and TDY MHHARSHers. He provided an average of three rolls
of film a week and provided weekly written reports based on his
visual observation of the target area.
8. KDABSINTHE: Operated by KDFACTOR-5, KDABSINTHE produced an
average of six rolls of film a week and was our principal source for
information on visitors to the MHHARSH installation, especially
"WOCORK-type" persons and political exiles. This segment of KDFACTOR
was also our main source of information on MHHARSH license plates
and automobiles.

9. In addition, KDLITERAL and KDABSINTHE both provided detailed
"attendance sheets" on all MHHARSH personnel. With the loss of this
combined coverage, it will be difficult to identity personnel assigned
to the MHHARSH installation or to monitor their daily movements in
and out of the compound. The two surveillance points also provided
periodic photo studies of the MHHARSH installation itself with empha-
sis on coverage of the construction changes and modification or addi-
tions made to the communications antenna system.
SECURITY

10. We were gratified to receive the very favorable Headquarters
KDFACTOR security review which was forwarded as HMMW-19,061, 28 June
1972. There is no need for further comment.

PROBLEMS
11. Only the developments reported in other channels.
FINANCES
12. KDFACTOR Project termination costs have been charged to
FY 1972 with the exception of rent payments and utility costs which
are being charged to FY 1973. The breakdown of agent termination
costs is as follows:

| KFACTOR-2 | $102,000 |
| KFACTOR-5 | 29,575 |
| KDFACTOR-6 | 35,380 |
| KFACTOR-8 | 8,112 |
| KDFACTOR-9 | 19,592 |
TOTAL
$194,659 pesos ($15,572.72 USD)
PLANS
13. Not applicable.
EVALUATION/OBITUARY
14. We believe the KDFACTOR Project represented a professional

FORM
0-64
53 a
USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
(40)
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
PAGE NO.
XX
2
CONTINUED

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
ΗΜΜΑ-42,197
collection effort being run securely and successfully against a sen-
sitive target with a minimal expenditure of funds and case officer
time.

Avir J. Martinma
Oliver J. MANKUNAS

PAGE NO.
3

CLASSIFICATION
53 a
USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
SECRET

CONTINUED
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION CLASSIFIED MESS
TOTAL CORES 5
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN B
PERSON LANT
SECRET..
Mhen Filled la

ADVANCE COPT
ISSUED
SLOTTED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PRON'BITED

7
8
BY.
४
DISCEM BV 2521
ACTION UNIT
WHE
978
PER
FILE. VR
(18/94, ci, colors, F1,

MEXI
SECRET 1023182 APR 72 CITE MEXICO CITY 19452
DIRECTOR
KDFACTOR
ID Are IN 582033
REF: DIRECTOR 252261

1. BRUCE H. FERNALD MET MONTHLY WITH RAYMOND H. GERENDE
FROM JULY 1970 TO MAY 1971 TO PAY TEN INSTALLMENTS OF TERMINA-
TION BONUS. LAST MEET WAS A MAY 1971. ALL IMPORTANT INFO ON
PROBLEMS OF GERENDE AND WIFE (FORMERLY LIEMPTY-19) WAS REPORTED
BY CABLE DURING THIS PERIOD, EXCEPT FOR NEWS THAT GERENDE VISITED
HOLLAND DURING CHRISTMAS 1970 WHEN HAD AMICABLE VISIT WITH WIFE
AND CHILDREN.

2. GERENDE IS OWNER OF HOUSE RENTED AUGUST 1970 BY
STATION STAFFER JESSE R. GARDALPHE. HE STILL TEACHING ENGLISH
TO EMPLOYEES OF TWO LOCAL FIRMS AND APPEARS FINANCIALLY PRESSED
SINCE CLASS SCHEDULE REDUCED RECENTLY FROM SIX TO TWO HOURS
PER DAY. STILL DRINKS, BUT APPARENTLY IN MODERATION. HAS
INDICATED HE MIGHT VISIT WIFE IN HOLLAND THIS SUMMER. WE HAVE
HEARD NOTHING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY TO INDICATE GERENDE HAS
VIOLATED HIS SECRECY AGREEMENT OR PROBED INTO LNLUTE STATUS OF
GARDALPHE.
!
i
1
SECRET
10 Apus 72
50-6-74/3
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON LINT NOTIFIED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
(When Filled In)
TOTAL COPIES
GROUP I

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN DI

ADVANCE COPY
DV
ISSUED
SLOTTED
APR 19 10 53 AM '22

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
RECOVED
DISSEM BY
ACTION ENT
TO WIRDED
FILE, VR
A 132772

ACTION NO
PAGE 2 MEXICO CITY 19452 SECRET
5. FILE: 50-6-74/3. Gr-1.
SECRET

DC
APR 2 1 72
SECRET:

1
OLIC:
Julie Paulas
WHLFI/CI
4167
6 APRIL 1972
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
(classification)
SECRET

ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
RLOTTED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

DY7/38

CONT
WHS
PER
INSEX
NO INDEX
RETURN TO
PRAVOM

FILE RID
X FILE IN CS FILE NO. 50-6-74/3

FILE. VR.
C
SECRET

MEXICO CITY

KDFACTOR
(cato and time hied)
то смесе number)
252261

2012
CITE DIRECTOR

٦
REF: A. HMMW-18, 773, 23 DECEMBER 71
Б. HMMA-41734, 10 MARCH 72

1. IN ORDER COMPLETE REF A KDFACTOR SECURITY REVIEW RE
KNOWLEDGEABILITY OF TERMINATED AGENTS AND FAMILIES, STATION
REQUESTED FURNISH BRIEF SUMMARY OF RAYMOND H. GERENDE'S
ACTIVITIES FROM TERMINATION IN JUNE 1970 TO PRESENT. ABOVE INFO
ATAC

NEEDED PRIOR TO COB 11 APRIL, IN ORDER PROVIDE NEEDED DETAIL
TO REF B.

2. FILE: 50-6-74/3.

END OF MESSAGE
ATAC
FI
WH COMMENT: Reference A requested an updated security review of KDEACTOR
Operations and knowledgeability of terminated agents and
families, Reference B is Sation answer to Reference A.
Reference Blacks detail regarding GERENDE, who handled
KDFACTOR up to inte 1970, present activities.
THEODORE G. SHACKLEY LAWRENCE C. LASER:
C/WHD AC WH/1
:
COCREATING OFFICERS

RELEASING OFFICER

_SECRET
50-6-1713
AUTHENTICATING
CFFにこ
7 Jeut fu

TO
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
PROCESSING ACTION
SECRET
MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO DIDEXING REQUIRED
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

Chief, Soviet Bloc Division

Acting Chief of Station, Mexico City g

KDFACTOR Operational Report, 1 September 1971 through 29 February 1972
FROM

SUBJECT

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES
ACTION REQUIRED: None; for your information and files.
: Α. ΗΜΜΑ-41,028, 17 September 1971 (Previous Report)
REFERENCES
: В. HMMW-18,773, 23 December 1971
OPERATIONS

1. The KDFACTOR Project continued throughout the past six
months to support two visual and photographic surveillance points
(KDLITERAL and KDABSINTHE) directed against the MHHARSH installation.
ADMINISTRATION

2. Oliver J. MANKUNAS continued to have responsibility for inside
administrative chores and agent handling throughout the period.
Bruce H. FERNALD, who previously handled the assets, is the alternate
case officer and would be available to take over agent meeting respon-
sibilities in the absence of MANKUNAS. Processing of the photo
product is accomplished inside the Station. Agent meetings have now
been cut to a minimum, and the processing of the product and delivery
to the consumer has been speeded up.
PERSONNEL

3. The project includes five salaried assets. KDFACTOR-2
operates the KDLITERAL basehouse and has been employed in this capa-
city since 1957. KDFACTOR-5 operates the KDABSINTHE basehouse with
the assistance of his wife KDFACTOR-6 and his two sons, KDFACTOR-8
and -9. KDFACTOR-5 has also served BKTRUST in this capacity since
1957.
PRODUCTION

4. KDLITERAL: During this reporting period, KDLITERAL, through
KDFACTOR-2, continued to be the source of within-the-compound photo-
graphic coverage of PCS and TDY MHHARSHers. He produced 55 rolls of
DISTRIBUTION:
Orig & 1 C/WHD
1 C/SBD
CROSS REFERENCE TO

CONTINUED
..
Styx/w S COPY

DATE
ΗΜΜΑ-41,734
CLASSIFICATION
10 March 1972
HOS FLE NUMBE
:ייזין
SECRET

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
SECRET
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
ΗΜΜΑ-41,734

film and provided weekly written reports based on his daily visual
observation of the target area.

5. KDABSINTHE: Operated by KDFACTOR-5, KDABSINTHE produced
100 rolls of film and continued to be the principal source for infor-
mation on visitors to the MHHARSH installation, with special atten-
tion given to visits of "WOCORK-type" persons and political exiles.
This segment of KDFACTOR also continued to be the main source of
information on MHHARSH license plates and automobiles.

6. KDLITERAL and KDABSINTHE both continue to provide detailed
"attendance sheets" on all MHHARSH personnel. Without this combined
coverage, it would be difficult to identify personnel assigned to
the MHHARSH..installation or to monitor their daily movements and
activities. In addition, the two surveillance points provide periodic
photo studies of the MHHARSH installation itself with emphasis on
coverage of any constructionchanges and any modification or additions
made to the communications antenna system. Both sites are also
available to service special support requests as required. During
the period, KDLITERAL performed a number of special photo surveys and
a three-week frequency sweep requested by WOACRE.
SECURITY REVIEW

The assets
7. There were no known problems of security relating to the
project. In response to Reference B. request, we have reviewed all
phases of the operation and believe that project security is sound.
The project assets have all been with us for many years and have
established themselves as respectable long-time residents of the
area. All five assets, four in one family and one in another, are
extremely security conscious and have all been SGSWIRLed.
derive a substantial portion of their livelihood from their EKTRUSTY
employment and would thus lose a great deal if security factors ever
necessitated a termination of their work for us. As an additional
safeguard, the KDLITERAL and KDABSINTHE operations are compartmented
from each other, and there has never been any indication that either
segment of KDFACTOR knows of the other's existence.

8. The only termination of a project asset in recent years was
KDFACTOR-1, who formerly processed the photo product from both
surveillance points. KDFACTOR-l was terminated amicably in March
1971. We still maintain periodic contact with him; and his brother,
KDADAGE-14, continues to be one of our more valued MHHARSH access
agents. KDFACTOR-1 is a reputable physician with a wide circle of
friends, and on a number of recent occasions he has been very helpful
when we have taxed his expertise in his field or requested background
information on people in the medical profession.