14-00000
104-10177-10206
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
HOUSE SELECT PILLERE ON ASSASSINATICIS STAFT MLADERS

FILE TITLE/NIFIBER/VOLEIC: MEROLA, JOSEPH R
201-25 780%
*

INCLUSIVE DATES: 1959-1977-
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: LSN/ISR
ROOM:
DELETIONS, IF ANY: TH112 AFENCY DOCUMENTS

201-257804
MEROLA. Josenh R.
DATE DATE
RECEIVED RETURNIND REVIEWED BY SIGNATURE OF
(PRINT NNIE) REVIENING OFFICIAL
Forateck

CIA HISTO
NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

IS IN IN CHRONOLOGICA
MATERIAL FILED IN TOS FOL
F
201257604

14-00000
FBI DOCUMENTS:
DATE: 1 OCTOBER 1959
SUBJECT: CARIBBEAN POLITICAL ACTIVITIES - CUBA
CLASSIFICATION: NONE
FILE: NONE GIVEN
DATE: 1 JUNE 1959
SUBJECT: RUBEN OSCAR MIRO CUARDIA
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
FILE: MIAMI 97-261 BUREAU 105-75663

14-00000
A
من
AGENCY DOCUMENT CONTAINING FBI INFORMATION
DATE: 16 JUNE 1959
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
FBI REPORTS:
DATE: 11 MARCH 1959
ية
SUBJECT: PANAMANIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES
FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS-PAΝΑΜΑ
FBI FILE : 109-12-223 (BUREAU)
DATE: 30 SEPTEMBER 1958
SUBJECT: JOSEPH MEROLA; B. LEONARD BIRD;
ROBERT DILLARD: UNKNOWN PILOT
FBI FILE#: 97-230 (ΜΙΑΜΙ)

14-00000
FBI DOCUMENT
DATE: 1 JUNE 1959
SUBJECT: RUBEN OSCAR MIRO GUARDIA
CLASSIFICATION: NONE
FILE: MV 97-261

14-00000
DEPT OF ARMY DOCUMENT
DATE: 13 MAY 1959
SUBJECT: JOSEPH R. MEROLA (SD 7083-A) (c)
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
FILE: ACSI-CO
ני

14-00000
FBI DOCUMENTS (SOME NOT COMPLETE)
DATE: 22 APRIL 1959
SUBJECT: PANAMANIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES
FOREIGN POLITICAL MATIERS - PANAMA
CLASSIFICATION: NONE
FILE: 109-12-223
DATE: 21 APRLL 1959
SUBJECT: PANAMANIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES
FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS
PAÑAMA
CLASSIFICATION: NONE
FILE: 109-12-223
DATE: 20 APRIL 1959
SUBJECT: PANAMANIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES
FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS PANAMA
CLASSIFICATION: NONE
FILE: 109-12-223
DATE: 17 APRIL 1959
SUBJECT: PANAMANIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES
FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS PANAMA
FILE: 1.09-12-223
CLASSIFICATION: ΝΟΝΕ
DATE: 10 APRIL 1959
SUEJECT: PANAMANIN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES
FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS CUBA
CLASSIFICATION: NONE
FILE #: 109-12-223
DATE: 2 April 1959
SUBJECT: PANAMANIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES
FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTER - PANAMA
CLASSIFICATION: NONE
FIBLE: SAC, MIAMI (109-43)
DATE: 5 MARCH 1959
SUPJECT: PANAMANIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES
INTERNAL SECURITY - PANAMA
CLASSIFICATION: NONE
FILE: 109-12-223
4

14-00000
(
(
CERAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTov, D.C. 20305
OGC 77-2335
11 April 1977
:
David M. Curry, Esq.
First Assistant U.S. Attorney
Western District of Pennsylvania
633 U.S. Post Office and Courthouse
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219
Dear Mr. Curry:
Re: Joseph Raymond Merola
In response to your letter of March 10, 1977 I wish to advise you
that the Central Intelligence Agency had one meeting with Joseph Raymond
Merola prior to August 1961. In late 1960 Joseph Raymond Merola made
several telephone calls to a CLA office offering his assistance in a general
way in connection with Cuban matters, which was refused. However, on
6 February 1961 Merola claimed to have information on a Latin American
senator who was a "close friend and confidant" of "Che" Guevera. Since
Guevera was listed as being the subject of foreign intelligence requirements,
the CIA employee agreed to meet with Mr. Merola. The meeting took place on
6 February 1961 and is the only meeting with Merola prior to his incarceration
which you stated in your letter began in August 1961.
Mr. Merola was not employed by the Central Intelligence Agency. His
contact with the CIA could not be described as an undercover Government
informant as alleged in the Writs of Error Coram Nobis by Victor Carlucci.
and Daniel Hanna. This one contact on 6 February 19ól by Merola with the
CIA was voluntary on his part.
Mathew McVane, an employee of the CIA, did testify in San Diego in
November 1975 concerning CLA contacts with Joseph Raymond Merola. The
citation we have for that case is U.S. v. Dalton C. Smith, et al. in the
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California, No. 74-2277-GT.
i
H BICENTENNI

14-00000
(
The testimony given in that trial is not inconsistent with the response given
above. It is true that after Merola was released from prison be again
volunteered information to the CIA. Merota was a voluntary source of foreign
intelligence.
I hope this provides sufficient information for you to file your response.
If not, please call me at (AC 703) 351-7531.
Sincerely,

cc: John Martin, Esq., Dept. of Justice
OCCITUCILL
John K. Greaney
Associate General Counsel

14-00000
UNCLASSIFIED
NTERNAL
SE ONLY
COP DENTIAL
SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
SUBJECT: (Optional)
Joseph Raymond Merola
EXTENSION NO.
FROM.
Maurice A. Sovern
O/SA/DO/O
200109
TO Officer designahan, room member, and
building)
DATE
154.2
8 April 1977
DATE
OFFICERS
INITIALS
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
to whom Draw a line across columa after each comment.)
RECEIVED
FORWARDED
1. Mr. Raymond Warren
C/LA
11 AP
3C2019 Hqs.
2.
3:
DULLA
SALLA
11 APR 577
14
4.
File-201
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11:
12.
13.
14.
15.
POM
3-02
610
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
!
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED
1

14-00000
FOR CIA OFFICIALS ONLY
LITIGATION
8 April 1977
MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. John K. Greaney
FROM
:
Special Assistant to the
General Counsel
Maurice A. Sovern
O/SA/DO/O
SUBJECT
:
Joseph R. Merola
REFERENCE
: Assistant United States Attorney
Pennsylvania Letter, 10 March 1977,
Subject as Above
1. The question in reference is the nature of
any involvement of Merola with CIA prior to
August 1961.
2. The Directorate's first recorded contact
with Joseph Raymond Merola prior to August 1961
occurred on 6 February 1961. It followed a series
of Celephone calls over a period of several months
(late 1960 early 1961) in which Merola had
expressed interest in offering his assistance in
connection with Cubar matters. Our officer had
declined contact until 6 February when Merola
claimed to have information on a Latin American
senator who was a "close friend and confidante"
of "Che" Guevera. Because Guevera was the proper
subject of foreign positive intelligence collection
requirement our officer agreed to a meeting.
3. The last recorded contact, except for the
litigation outlined below, with Merola was a tele-
phone contact with Merolà in late July 1975 when
he volunteered additional foreign positive intel-
ligence.
4. At the end of August 1975, Merola
contacted a staff officer to ask for testimony in
the criminal fraud trial in San Diego. California
(U.S. v. Joseph R. Merola, et al, Southern District
of California, CR 74-2277-GT) which we subsequently..
E2 IMPDET
CL BY 012860
FOR CIA OFFICIALS ONLY

14-00000
FOR CIA OFFICIALS ONLY
provided on 13 November 1975.
5. Subject is characterized as a voluntary
occasional source of foreign positive intelligence
who was in sporadic contact with us.
6. We greatly appreciate the Assistant United
States Attorney's concern for the confidentiality
of our information. The information above may be
made available to the AUSA and the court as
appropriate without further restriction.
15/
Maurice A. Sovern
O/SA/DO/O: MASovern: kaw (1542)
Distribution
Orig & 1 OGC
1 C/DCD
1 C/LA
2 SA/DO/0
- 2
FOR CIA OFFICIALS ONLY
1

14-00000
CATE
PEPLY REQUESTED
LETTED 10.
SPEED LETTER
YFS
TO
FICE
ATTN:
Froderic WeCann
FROM:
Crocky Br
SA/LA
SUBJECT: Joseph R. Herola-Litigation
REFERENCE: ISS/PICG Meno Std 17 Narch 1977
A review of the files confirms that the noe was not in
any way involved operationally with Joseph R. Merola prior to 1961.
However, it should be noted that subsequent to bis release fren
prisen ir November 1962, Verola was in contact with members of
the Frente kevolutionario Democratico, an anti- Castro organization.
of interest to this Agency.
1831
SIGMATEPI
DATE
REPLY
RESPONDER'S FILE

14-00000
Frederic Modern
155, PICO
SA/LA/SICO
-3
3.
COG/0185
4.
5.
6
8.
9.
11.
12.
13.
14.
610
まいそう
!
?
C
301029
Caf
17 Arch 1977
COMMENTS urtea comment to s
Dorette coross selumn crern com
Bill: The Merola
file is changed. ts
MAS. When you're
JAUR JAہوتا ہے می
in RI (IF) and
Cancel my change,
Press.
٢٠١٢ ٥٦٠
Maunce.
2:

14-00000
MEMORANDUM FOR:
FROM
:
SUBJECT
CONFIDENTIAL
17 March 1977
SA/LA/EICO
DED
Frederic McCann
ISS/PICG
: Litigation: Joseph R. Merola
1. Attached herewith is an unclassified memorandum
received from OGC which requests information on the "extent
and nature of any involvement of (Joseph R.) Merola with
federal agencies prior to August 1961".
2. A review of 201-257804 reveals that Mr. Merola may
have been in contact with WII/Miami in 1961 and was in contact
with DCD prior to 1961.
3. Please review your files and provide whatever
information is pertinent to paragraph 1., above. No
information will be released outside of CIA without your
concurrence.
4.. 201-257804 is attached to the SA/LA/EICO copy of
this memorandum. Please return it with your reply by
1 April 1977.
Just Mam
Frederic McCann
Attachments:
als
CONFIDENTIAL
INPORT EL D

14-00000
DEPT OF JUSTICE DOCUMENT
SUBJECT: JOSEPE PAYMOND MEROLA
DATE: 10 MARCE 1977
CLASSIFICATION: NONE
FILE: NONE

14-00000
trial "actively engaged in the service
of tre government
Inng Greea, attorney for Cartuca
and Hanna, said the prosecutors, His
bert I. Tete.baum and Daniel J. Sap
dor, knew Merris was a government
agent and therefore "perpetrated a
fraud upon the-tmas court."
Teitelbaura and Snyder are now fed
eml judges La Putacurza and have not
commented about the action filed by
Green, which is still pending. But
oficial Tamatar with their positiza
snd the two judges will, if necessary,
swear they did not now Meroia was a
government agent.
Cuban Connection
"The answer to this whole thing re
volves around Cuba," said this offi-
- cial.
Green, who represents Manrarino's
son-in-law, said he didn't thinis Me
rola's testimony la Chicago had been
particularly "heipfhu!" to the prese
cution. A "imore logical assumption"
is that Meroia was freed from prisea
because of what he could do for the
government in Cuba, he said..
"This guy works anywhere he wants
to," said Green. "The governmer: has
protected him in California, Chicago
and everywhere else. He still has to be
of value to the government."
One thing is certain: Merola is wel
known in the Miami Cuban comm
nity and among those who have been
linked to alleged Castro assassination
attempts..
"Joe was an undercover agent, he
was closely associated with the gov-
crament," Frank Sturgis, of Miami,
told The Bulletin, "He did have an as-
sociation with the CIA."
Sturgis, who gained potcriety as one
of those convicted in the Watergate
burglary, was a ton Castro lieutenant
during the revolution who served as a
double agent for the CIA. He later
worked against Castro in the Day of,
Pigs operation and has admitted plott
ing to kill Castro
"I know Joe was involved with the
revolutionaries," said Sturgis, "I
know he had an association with the
CIA, but because of compart.
mentalization, you don't know what
they're doing."
Tied to Burglar
nations Committee said Merola was
"a good friend" of Fugeria (Rolando)
Merturer, another of those conneted
of the Watergate burglary. Martinez
is suciated with the CIA a the
Bay of Pigs effort and in other sati-
Castro moves.
"Joe's place in Miami Beach was on
the water and it was used by ant-Cas-
tro groups to smegle arms to Cuba,"
this source said. "Martinez was one of
them."
"I can't recall," Martinez said,
when asked by The Bulletin about
using Merula's dock. "Really, I can't
tell you arything about it.
"He was connected with helping
people here in Miam against the dic-
tatorship of Batista. He might have
been in some other branch that I don't
know about."
:-
Altredo Borges, a Miami business
consultant and a Bay of Pigs veteran,
told a Bulletin reporter inquiring
about Merola to "please write me a
letter."
"I don't know who you are." Borges
said. "I cannot talk over the tele:
phone."
One investigator interested in Ne
rola said the matter is "very sensi
tive, records are hard to come by."
"He seems to it everything." this
investigator said. "He's a pilot, he
speaks Spanish, he knows Cuba and
he's connected. But nobody wants to
cooperate."
A Scared Man
Records indeed are hard to come.:
by. Official and unofficial attempts to
cocain complete records of Merola's
arrests proved fruitless. So did efforts
to determine wins: encounters be.
might have had with officials respon
ble for watching the nation's bor-
deas
But despite the bebel of some that
Merola enjoys the protection of the
government while at the same time
being welcomed by crganized crime,
those who know him say that is not the
case.
"Joe has got a little money," said
one Florida acquaintance. "I don't
Anow where he gets it. But he's ann
former and they hate informers. The
mais concerned.
"He goes around Dace (County),
but he is very, very careful where be
A source close to the House Ascassi goes, Joe is scared."
!
2

14-00000
TO HIPPCL OFFLE
SUBJECT: Court Appearance on 13 November 19/5, San Diego, California
2010-118
1. On 13 Sovember 1975, Mart MacVane appeared as a witness for the
defense at the Cafted States District Court for the Southern District of
California, 325 West F Street, San Diego, California. The case was the
United States of America V. Dalton C. Saith, et al. MacVane was called
to testify by E. Mac Anos Jr., attorney for defendant Joe Kerola. In
honor of the scarcena PacVane appeared at the court. On 13 November 1975
ac approximately 15:30 hours Sàn Diego tise Macvane was called to the
witness stand...
2. Кас Агos, attorney for defendant Joe Merola began questioning
after MacVane vas sworn in as a witness. Amos asked how long MacVane
had been employed by the CIA? He asked if MacVane knew defendant Merola?
He asked if Mactane were told by Merola about a shipment of surplus
helicopter parts going to the country of El Salvador? He asked MacVane
if Merola had voloteered other information to the Agency? He then asked
if Merola vere ever paid for such information? Amos also tried to establish
the value of surples parts in Latin America compared to the US. This was
objected to by actorney Robert Thaller, prosecutor in the case. The judge
sustained the objection and Macvaze did not have to answer the question.
Amos finished his questioning and Thaller began a short cross examination.
Thaller asked if MacVane ever beard Verola mention stocks? He also asked
if MacVane knew the name of the corporation that Merola represented? He
thenspointed out that even if some stock fraud were occurring, MacVane
would not be writting because Macvane was not an investigator, but rather
a collectos of foreiga information. The cross examination then ended.
All questions were answered to the best of MacVane's ability and knowledge.
3. There appeared to be little purpose in the appearance of MacVane
because it was obvious that Macvane knew nothing of any value concerning
the case. Maclane's total time on the witness stand was about 10 minutes.
After complecten of his testiacay MacVane was released.
BRUCE ALWARI
MCMacVane:ljh
E2 IMPDET CL BY CLI563
Bay U.S. Sarings Bands Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan
30
DI:
TOONDONHOMSON
CORDON TRONG SON
DISTRICT JUDGE

14-00000
SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSICATION TOP AND BOTTOM
UNCLASSIFIED
CONFIDENTIAL
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP
SLURET
TO
NAME AND LOURESS
1
2
3
5
6
DATL
N.TIALL
子
ACTION
APPROVAL
COMMENT
CONCURRENCE
Remarks:
DIRECT REPLY
DISPATCH
FILE
INFORMATIOЯ
any results of the
Meety.
PREPARE REPLY
RECOMMENDATION
RETURA
SIGNATURE
FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER
FROM: NAME ADDRESS AND PHONE NO
DATE
UNGASSIFIED
1-47
237
bns previous
CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET
(40)

14-00000
SECRET
6 November 1975
MEMO FOR RECORD:
RE: MEROLA, Joseph R.
FYI:
201-257804
U.S. Citizen Registered to DEA/HIAMI Dec 74
Today, Randy Daugherty, DCD case officer,
asked to borrow subject 201 because he
wanted to take it to Office of Genl. Counsel
for Mr. John Greany.
There is to be a meeting today between
Mr. Greany, Bob Starling, DCD COPS, and
Matt McVane, DCD man in Miami who is
visiting Hqs. McVane has an interest
in MEROLA.
Told Randy that MEROLA was DEA source and that
matter should be coordinated with NARCOG,
This transpired during lunch hour Randy was
in a hurry and I gave him file. He said he would
tell Mr. Greany that Subj. was DEA source.
L.
SECRET

14-00000
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Joseph Raymond Merola
OGC 75-1073
5 November 1975
•
1
:
1. On. 3 November I talked to Mr. Matt McVane, DCD officer
stationed in Miami, and he said that he had received the subpoena
from E Mac Amos, Jr. to appear as a defense witness in the trial in
San Diego onii November. Mr. McVane agreed to come to Headquarters
on 6 November to discuss the information in the files and Mr. Robert
Starling of DCD agreed to join in the meeting. Mr. McVane told me
that Lt. Colonel Douglas W. Haldane, who had previously been on
detail to the DCD Miami Office, had returned to the Army and was
currently assigned somewhere in Europe and that his address was
Headquarters.. USARSUR, APO New York, New York 09403:
2 2. Since this Office had received a letter from Mr. Amos with a
request for the current address of Colonel Haldane, I called Mr. Amos
on. 4 November and explained to him that Colonel Haldane was no longer
with the Central Intelligence Agency and it was our understanding that
Colonel Haldane was stationed in Europe. Mr. Amos did not want the
current address of Colonel Haidane. He did state, however, that Mr.
McVane would not be needed in San Diego until Wednesday morning.
12 November. As things stood now, Mr. Merola was the tifth defendant
and it would be that length of time betore Mr. McVane's testimony vould
be needed.
3. Mr. McVane told ine that he had been called by Mr. Robert
Thaler of the U.S. Attorney's Office in California. I told Mr. McVane
that I would contact Mr. Thaler. I called Mr. Thaler who is a a member
of the Organized Crime Sutka Force, Department of Justice. Room 2307,
300 North Los Angeles Street, Los Angeles, California 90012. telephone
No. (AC 213) 688-5808. Mr. Thaier was pieased to hear that Mr. McVane

14-00000
was being made available to testify and explained that he thought Mr.
Amos had aircady prepared a motion to dismiss if Mr. McVane was to be
denied as a witness for the defense. I explained to Mr. Thaler that Mr.
McVane was coming to Headquarters on Thursday, 6 November, and said
that we would call him to discuss the role Mr. McVane played in receiving
information from Mr. Merola.
4. If this case runs parallel to many criminal prosecutions, the
defense may never put Mr. McVane on the stand when he actually shows
up as this may prove detrimental to their defense. However, we should
be prepared for his testimony if, in fact, it does take place.

cc: Chief, DCD
Matt McVane
OGC/JKG/eh
Distribution
loveal
John K.. Greaney::.
Associate General Counsel.
::
Original - OGC SUBJ: LITIGATION CRIMINAL.
JKG Signer-
1- Chronolens
::

14-00000
John T Holt
John Skyrstood Phoodas
Harison R. Harlywood
Dougiss A Reynolds
David W. Ault
Michael & Neri
Dan H. Deuprey
The mas H. Ault.
E Mac Amos, Jr.
Thomas M: Dymott
:
HOLT, RHOADES AND HOLLYWOOD
A PROFESSIONAL CORPORATION
ATTORNEYS AT LAW
1010 SECOND AVENUE. SUITE 17.2
SAN DIEGO. CALIFORNIA 92101
Ares 7:4
Telephone 238-1712
:
October 28, 1975
Office of the General Counsel..
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 20505
Dear Sir:
Our firm represents Mr. Joseph Merola who is
presently on trial as a defendant in the Southern
District of California in an action entitled United
States of America v. Dalton C. Saith, et al. (No. 74-2277-
GT). In order to properly defend Mr. Merola, we need to
utilize the testimony of Mr. Matt McVane and possibly the
testimony of Col. Douglas Haldane. We understand that
Mr. McVane is. employed by the Central Intelligence Agency
and works out of the Miami office. We also understand
that Col. Douglas Haldane is employed by the Central
Intelligence Agency but we do not have an address for
service upon Col. Haldane.
.:
Enclosed you will find copies of Subpoenas
issued for Mr. McVane: and Col. Haldane. These Subpoenas
require the attendance of the individuals in the Southern
District of California at San Diego, California on
November 11, 1975 at 9:00a.m. Enclosed you will also
find a copy of the Order signed by Judge Gordon Thompson
authorizing the issuance of the Subpoena for Mr. McVane.
Since we do not have an address for Col. Haldane at
this time, the court has not approved the issuance of
a Subpoena, for him in which the government would be
responsible for all of the expenses and costs.
We have been informed by Mr. McVane that it
is necessary for him to obtain the approval of your office
before he canitestify in this matter. Accordingly, we
request that he be granted the necessary approval in
order to allow him to testify in this matter. In addition,
we request that we be provided with an address for
Col. Haldane and that he also be allowed to testify in
Lite Cuse. We would appreciate weing advised as soon as

14-00000
Office of the General Counsel
October 28, 1975
Page Two
i
possible with respect to whether these persons will be
available for testimony. If we can provide any additional
information with respect to this case, please do not
hesitate to contact the undersigned. Thank you for
your courtesy and cooperation.
:
!.
EMA/db
Enclosures
Very truly yours,
HOLT, RHOADES & HOLLYWOOD
By
E. Mac Amos, Jr.

14-00000
United States District Couri
FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORN
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
V.
DALTON C. SMITH, et al.
TRATT MCVANE
-2277-GT
You are hereby coininanded to appear in the United States District Court for the
District California
San Diego
Iith
on the
testify in the above-entitled case.
:
::
.at
325 West E Street.
day of
November
This subpcena is issued on application of the
:
Southern
in the city of
19 at
75 9:00
o'clock
A.
BM. to
Octcher 23
1995
E-CAMOS, OR
Attornea tendant MEROLA
defendant.
WILEAR W. LUDDY
SEALL TOSITE GALLAGHER
Clerk.
Deputy Clerk.
1910-Second Ave., Suite 1712
San Diego, CA 92101
RETURN
"Received this subpoena at
on
and on
at
I served it on the
within named
by delivering a copy to
and tendering to
the fee for one day's attendance and the mileage
allowed by law.
:
Service Fees
Travel.
$
Services
Total
$
By
Insert "United States," or "defendant" as the case may be.
• l'ees and puteage need not he tendered to the witness upon service of a subnoena issued in behalf of the Unit
States or an officer or agency thereof. 25 USC 1225, or on tehalf of a defendant who is financially unable to pay
such costs (Kala 17 (b), Federal Rules Criminal Procedura,.
1

14-00000
United States District Court
FOR THE
SOULCERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
To..
V.
DALTON C. SMITH, et al.
COL. DOUGLAS HALDANE
No.
74-2277-GT
You are hereby commanded to appear in the United States District Court for the
District of
California
San Diego:...
on thith
Southern
at
in the city of.
325 West F Street
day of
November
19 nt
75 9:00
o'clocks
M. to
:
testify in the above-entitled case.
This subpoena is issued on application ferandant.
MIDAN W. LUDDY
19
October 23
75
Clerk.
Attorney defendant MEROLA
SEAL TOSITE GALLAGHER
Depniy Clerk,
1010 Second Ave., Suite 1712
San Diego, CA 92101
RETURN
Received this subpoena at.
and on
on
:
at
I served it on the
within named
by delivering a copy to
and tendering to
the fee for one day's attendance and the mileage
allowed by law.
Sérvice Fees
Travel.
Services
Total_
$
By
-
Insert "United States," or "defendant" as the case may be.
Fees and muleage need not be tendered to the witness Lovt service of a subpoena issued in behalf of the United
States or an ollicer or agency thereof. 23 USC 1525, or on behalf of a defendant who is financially able to pay
such costs (Rulo 17 (b), Federal Rules Criminal Procedure):
i

1.  MAC ANOS, JE.
23
HOLT, SFONDES & HOLLYHO
1010 Second Avenue, Suite 171?
San Diego, CA 92201
(7150235-1712
4 Attorneys for Defendant
JOSEPH R. MEROLA
FILED
CCT 22 1975
5
6
CLERK, US DISTRICT COURT
COUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORILY
By
DEPUTY
?
ខ
9
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA
10
11
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
)
)
12
Plaintiff,
NO. CR 74-2277-GT
13
v.
ORDER FOR ISSUANCE OF
SUBPOENAS:
14
JOSEPH R.: MEROLA, et al.,
15
Defendants.
.
16
17
LA PROFESSIONAL CORPORATION
ATTORNEYS AT LAW
IGIO SECOND AVENUE, QUITE 1712
SAN DIEGO. CALIFORNIA 02101
PHONZ 230-1712
This court having considered the application of defend
18 Joseph Merola, and the supporting affidavit of E. Mac Amos, Jr
د
19
for issuance of sübpoenas directed to Edward Stanton and Matt
:
20
21
McVane and having found that good cause exists for the issuance
of said subpoenas,
22
:
23
24
25
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT the clerk of this court issu
subpoenas requiring the attendance of Matt McVane and Edward
Stanton on November 11, 1975 at 9:00 a.m. in this court and,
further, that all costs and fees in relation to the attendance of
i
26
27
said witnesses shall be borne by the United States under the
provisions of the Criminal Justice Act.
23
DATED: OCT 22 1975
:
20
30
31
BY: GORDON THOMPSON, JR
GORDON THOMPSON
DISTRICT JUDGE.
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORN
32
:

14-00000
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Joseph Raymond Merola
24 Octoder 75
1. On 23 October, Mr. Robert Starling of DCD called to say that
Matthew McVane (phonetic), a DCD officer who is stationed in Miami.
Florida, had received a telephone call from a San Diego attorney saying
that he was mailing a subpoena to him. The attorney, E. Mac Amos, Jr..
is a member of the law firm of Holt, Rhodes and Hollywood at 1010 Second
Avenue, San Diego, California 92101, telephone No. (AC 714) 238-1712.
Mr. Amos advised Mr. McVane that the subpoena was for his appearance
on. behalf of Mr. Merola who was on trial in San Diego.
2. Mr. Starling indicated that the charges against Merola had
'something to do with exporting airplane parts without a license. I called
Mr. Clyde