2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

(WHEN FILLED IN)
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
INSTRUCTIONS
PRIOR TO FILING
TO: ACTION BRANCH

1.  Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap and forward to RID.
2.  Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation.
    If file no. and title shown are not proper, Insert proper file no. below and forward document to RID/AN.
    FROM:

RID/
PROPER FILE NO.
TO: ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE
COMMENTS
WH/COG/REG.
RYBAT/SECRET
U/sk alladed
INITIAL
RYBAT/SECRET
The foll
auber

14-00000
DISPATCH
TO Chief, SAS
INFO Chief of Base, Norida
Chief of Station, WAVE; Chief, WHD

FROM Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT Contact Report/ LITAMIL-901

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

PERUMEN
Attached, for addresses, are copies of Subject contact reports dated 11 May, 14 May, and 15 May 1963.

Willard C CURTIS
Holland Curtis

Attachments:
As stated above

Distributions
1 - C/SAS, w/att
2 - C/WHD, w/att
2 - COS, WAVE, w/att
2 - COB, Merida, w/att HME
3 - Files

INDEX X 56-6-105/3
21 May 1963
ΗΜΜΑ 21403
P-6079

SE CRET
LITAMIL-
On the night of 10 May 63, I met LITAMIL-9
usual wonderrous point and we droe to outlying district of
ity where debriefing took place. NO SECURITY PROBLEMS NOTED.
722 LITAMII-9 reported as follows:
uban 0-2 Mexico, told 1-9 that he had been
with DolorealRORA (Cepeda and that DE LAVORA Galked for 1-9.
19, of course, will take advantage of VEGA remark to make con-
이
with DE LA MORA. (1-9) commented that fast VEGA was with DE LA MORA
is interesting. It will be recalled that "Conchita" FERNANDEZ
이
told (1-9) to be careful with DE LA MORA Because the is a contact
of CLERGE Fabra, Cuban G-2 type.
oported that on 94May 53. while hear the dine Diana at XXX
0:30, he saw Ramon Casado waiting for someone BIOBAS
aw (L-9) and waved at him. (This was KURARK meeting) (L-Rahmmented
that SINOBAS was definitely waiting to make a contact with someone.
rancisco IZ Alberdi, Srarish/Cuban, who formarly tended the
cate at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico, returned to Noxico or 10 May
63, this time assigned to the Embassy as "Auxiliar de Segurda Cla
(LIPIRE Airlists how MAIZ and his wife returned via Gubara on
10 May 63). (1-9)erid
)و(
L-9 arid that MAIZ' wife is suffering from cancer,
that she was operated on in Habana but there is no hope:
201-934249
L-9 reported that on 9 May 63, Ramon/LOBAS) Casado, Cuban Charge,
met with students (about 6) from Chapingo The meeting took place
at 1700 at the Erhasey

Foo. MAI told L-9 that EXXXX Hector CALLO Portieles. Cuban
Charge in Bolivia, went back to Habana recently for what he thought
was short stay 1.e. two weeks, but he is still there. GALLO
was assigned to study "instruccion politica y revolucionaria"

6. MAI also told (9) that Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez, formerly in
이
Mexico received a scholarship. It is not known what kind for where
ΜΑΤΣ
told (9)
that Heberto JORRIN was expected to return to Mexico
on 13 Hay 63. I said that Antonio CARCIA Lara was expected to
return to Mexico shortly.
SECRET
P-60791

SECRET
said that he had the Auty (security) all day Saturday,
Hay 63. 1-9 waid that Jose LLAGOSTERA is taking the day
off and will not return until about 2200 this evening,
told 2-9 to report any similar info particularly re wharly re Aruando
SARDIFAS and others who live at the Embassy.
MAZZ told
that Eusebio AZCUE was expected back in a week
or co. MAIZ said that his wife would return after him. Be
added that Sra de AZCUE is anxious to return to Mex100.

100 1-9 finally identified JonCATHANDEZ Roa as the person who
in working with Buenaventura REYES Acosta and Ramon SORES
이
(7) reported this peer tously) (9) ani anid he asked FERNANDEZ
1 he was related to the Foreign Minister and FERNANDEZ didn't
이
say yes or no. (1-9) believes that he might be bodiase ho doan't
soen very sharp and yet he's hanging around with BIOBAS and
BHENAVENTURA. FERNANDEZ fold (17) who asked him about his re
lationship with ROA, that if he was related to RCA it was a
distant relationship.

11 Coty BOLORZANO, sister in law of Gral. Lagaro CARDENAS 18
scheduled to leave for Habana on 13 May 63.

12.9 said he attend a meeting at the Academia Mexicana de
Derecho Internacional on 8 May 63 and the Mexican Amb to Israel
spoke re non-intervention and autodeterminación. (1-9) anid
the speech was typical of Mexican govt policy re Cuba.

13.daid that he saw Rafael
Bon At the Embassy on 9 Nay 63.
MERUZA
PEDROSA Perez and Antonio AERUZA
THEXXXXNX They were in session
with Ramon SINORAS. PEDROSA, the mulatto type, told L-9 at the
inaugural session of the Microonda Seminar that "it was necessary
for him to make a lot of contacts in Mexico". It was he who also
him
이
told (1-9) that he was in contact with Raul ROA, 1.e. "Estoy en
(9)said
contact con ROA". L-9) said that on 9 May at the Embassy, PEDROZA
was sick, 1.e. male green, bad breath etc. I told (19) to make
contact with PEDROZA and ARRUZA if p ssible and size them up. He
said it would be difficult because he has no reason to see thom.
He merely attended the inaugural ceesion of the Seminar.
(ウ)
however, did iientify both men from LIERODE "take which I showed

15Nhim on this date.
SECRET

MONIM, according to (Ir
wrgosted that a 1tr be written to her asking her to com
budary at which ting the Có could interview her. He said that
was told at the tabassy that it would take about a gopτι
plearance eto, that she had to be investigated.
that Dabassy request she report for interview would appaer so
so past this investigation.

19. 1-9 brought a contract to the beeting re his brother's ca
Nest16. He pointed out that the contest was signed on 7
ho was not present, kad
And he left for Habana on 4 March. Becnizée ho
home did not appear in the MENEE contract and he was unhappy tha
thie had to be. I-9, however, diplomatically and politely pointed
but that he want to bring this to my attention to show that this
hed been a sacrifice on his part, 1.6. his travel to Habana on over
dehbld. I asked 2-9 whether this meant anything to him in dollars
and scents and he daid it did not. He said the only thing was that
if his name appeared as the Administratorof the Ompany when the
contract was signed with (Nestle) it would give him a felling of acco
plishment and security re his future relationship with the company.
A

16. 1-9 9 identified identified the following from (LIERODE pho tous l

Emigas TGA мо 201
Antonio ARRUZA Non mo tol
RafaelPEDROZA Pereg

17. L-7 reported that the Gabing FERNANDEZ who was
Atended the Cuban Embassy coctail on 19 Apr 63,
Cuban woman and has been to Cuba several tine L-9 said that..
ΤΕΧΝΕΣΧΗ FERNANDEZ has a home near Acapulco, where Eusebio ASSUR
has stayed on occasions.
SECRET FILE: LIE-9

Sábado da guardia todo el
Jomingo con ginobas
Xama. 188 13 g.n. "Lon Vivoa
rou Coyoacan
Jorrin probablomante
Babajador
Ros-Babajeda
Coty Solórzano Lanos 13
logan Hiercoles familis
Comes Abascal etc,
Mercolon 8 Academia Mex.
an Derecho Internacional

Embajada americana Jusq
Urta. Morin, solicito visn.

M. Dolores de la Mora-Vega

Sinobas, Jueves a las 10.30
A.m. junto cine Diana

Llegó Maiz hoy Viernes 10.
adscripto a la Emb. Mex.
auxiliar de segunda clase.

Sinoban, Jueves a las 5 pom
recibió estudiantes Chapin-

Gallo, estudiando en Habanm
"instrucción política y re-
volucionaria". creyó que
estaría en Cuba solo 15 día
Rogelio, becado 8

2. On 19 May 63, I was LITANIAt the usual
vacle Vous point and we drove to outlying district of the town,
more we held meeting. NOR ECURITY PROBLEMS HOP.D. Timer 2236-
tioni
In
(LITA MIL-9) provided the following informa
ol
Prancisco told
th Emre FARIAS, forror mpotaire
baid at the Cuban Embassy, and now employed by the PORTUONDOS
Oriente (And Jose PORTUGENDO) 10 poing start to Kozinn Asi
لمعرفتهمk, She is expected to arrive from one day to the
next. According to MAIZ, FARIAS was "sacking in" with anybody
who came along, and has even become friendly with counteryrevs.
KAIZ said the
vion of the above, FARIAS in being "bounced"
Cubane plan to conduct a full body search of FAR LAS when she,
leaved Cuba, 1.6. WDMEX "en cueros". queros". I-9 pointed out that
FARIAS 19 a Mexican and if it true what MAIZ reporting about
body search etal it would be good for PP play in Mexico.
2. L-9 reported that Andres ARMONA, 10, 11 Tampico.
Jose FERNANDE ROA, newly arrived Cuban dip, told 1-9 that
ho came to Metiod in 1959 with a group of young peoplο το πα
"official" TEANANDEZ said that Amb MASSIP was in Mexico at that
time. 17) reported the this is FERNANDEZ first overseas post.

(*) Heberto JORRIN is expected to return on 14 May 65.
Armina Ramos, Andres Meola
5. 1-9 reported that Ovidis SARA, the Vice Congul in Veranxua
is quite nick with "turistas", 1.0. amoebas. ile apparently han
had this probada in Cuba
6. Ramon STHORAS, Cuban Charre, told L-9) that his baby would be
about a week old when the new Ambassador arrived and that this
would be fine because he wanted to return to Cuba and tee kiso
father who has returned to Habans from Paris (Ramon SINOBAS dol
Olmo). SINOBAS wife gave birth to baby boy
Maruel VEGA Perez told (1-9) that

이
L that the new Amb Joaquin HERNANDES
SECRET
//
de Arvas "llegara a mas tarder en diez dias"

SECRET
the Cuban Embassy from Coyonean. DUNI, who in 1-910
1n extremely "sharp" "realiatio" and "talented" told L-9 the fell
M
The Cuban ey is now consolidated me the resent
trip of Fidel CASTRO to Mondow proves. DUMIN said that
CASTRO's absence in Cuba did not affect the regime
that things went on the same in his absence etc. DIUIN,
however, said that this does not mean that Cuba does not
nodd CASTRO He said that Oube is not like the Soviet
Union where the loss of KRUECHEV would not affect the
regime, Cubanced CASTRO and he must be protected to
avoid an assassination attempt
A

8. L-9) aaked EKAKIKI DUNIN about the "tapado" and DUNI
answered that at this time, in his opinion, not even tha
President LOPEZ N., knows who is going to be the candidate
DUNIN stated that a rovolution in Nexigo sipilar to
that in Cuba would be very difficult. He attributed this
mave
to the fact that the masses in Nexico EXE not in the
"debida preperacion politics" required for such a rove
olution. He said that it will take one or two generations
before Mexico is ready for such a revoluatona

9. L-9 said that Eusebio AZCUE Lopos, Cuban Consul, is expecte
back on 27 May.63.

10. L-9 said that while he was in Habana ho asked that 5 copies
of Bohemia he sent to the Embassy. He He said that 10 copies
are arriving each week since bis return to Mexico, ile said
very little propaganda is coming.

11. L-9 said said that that he he saw saw Rafael PEDROSA and Antonio AHRUZA at the
mbasay but he did
but he did not hava a chance to talk with them. Tô
said they quickly slipped into SINORAS office.
CKS
SECRET

FILE:

Lama, ciudadana trexicana,
(doméstica de Portuondo)
Armona, en Tampico
Roa, vino como Oficial en
época de Vassip
mafiana Martes 14 llega
Jorrin
probablemente en un men
Sinobas coincidirá en He
bana con su padre proceden-
te de Paris

Vega, "De Armas llegard a
más tardar en dies dias

Dunin. "La Revolución está
tan consolidada, que la
momentanea ausencia de Pid
del, no ha trastornado la
buena marcha de las cosas
en Cubas Esto no quiere
senidel no
no séa in-
-
Dunin." Yo creo que en
este momento ni el mismo
Presidente sabe quien va
a son el candidato"
Celecciones en México)
Dunin. "Diffoil en México
una revolución estilo Cubel
no existe para ello en la
masa la debida preparación
política"ero requiere por
lo menos una o dos genera
ciones

O LITANIE-9)
On 14 May 63, I met (LITAMIL-9 at usual
undervous point and we drove to outlying area to hold meeting,
NO SECURITY PROBLEMS NOTEГ Time: 2200-2300
LITA
LIMMIL-9 provided the following infor
1-9 had dinner at the Embarry on 14 lay and he identified Emigd to
VEGA Calero as a TDYer

Lag said that Emmanuel CARBALLO told him that "Chiquior ARSAMEN
DI (sic) employed by the Cona de las American is coming to Mexico
έσον δот вcouple of weeks, SARSAMENDI, RSAIENSI, Imu, Subject's fathor
lives in Maxico and according to CARPALIO, was disappointed that
his daughter was not going to stay in Mexico. Subject's mother
is luting in Miami.

Seydor DIALTO
to Cuba
L-9 reported that Seydon DIALTO, Guinean Amb/arrived on Cubana
on 14 May 63 and he saw to it that DIATIO had nož problems at
the airport. DIALLO is the Guinean Amb to the U.N. also.

DEALLO told told 1-9 that Carlos LECHUGACY, cubon All
was highly respected by all members of the U..
including the
U.B. He said that LECHUGA knew how to handle himself in the
CCOMMENT BY SE VDAN DALLO, GUINEN PE to UN COPA MATE
very complicated U.N. nareuvers. DIALLO said that RAM THUERISE
and JE CHUGA make a good team (L-9
that DIALLO is very much
pro-CASTRO and undoubtedly a member of the oro CASTRO U.N. aliqus.
wn Vicente LO BARDO Talconng for
DIALLO told L-9 that he has known Vigente LOBARDO
many years

4. 19 identified the following LIKRODE photos May

Marcial MARTINEZ
(COLORED)
Rafnel PEDROSA
Axandia

1-9 aaid ho saw MARTINES
in Havana recently,
TDyer for donferance on
microwaves.
L-9 also identified Jore FERIANDEZ Ron in LIFIRE phito or Sov
Embassy press öfiesta" recently.63

5. 1-9 said that Nemuel NEGA Peres told Rafael PETROSA Arandia and
Antonio ARRUZA Mon that she should not leave any docs or papers t
their hotel room. In fact, both men left immediately to get papore
from their tax room.

이
Lbelieves they are s believes
Agner.
SECRET

FILE: LITAIT-9)
6