104-10174-10037
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

L February 1960

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Meeting with Henry P. Lopez at the Statler-Hilton Hotel on
1 February 1950 from 1000 hours to 1530 hours.

1. Those present were Mrs. Vidal PP/PA, Alexander Hunter (Williams)
PP/EAD, Charles Penney (Twiss) WI/PW, and Philip Toomey (Thompson) H/4/PP.

2. Mr. (Lopez) have a report of his contacts in Cuba after receiving
his notes which were brought up by Mr. (Noel) and given to Mr. (Lopez) by
Mr. Coomer. Lopez said that he had given biographical sketches of
Echevarria, Rasco, Laureano Batista, Martinez Fraga, Ruben de Leon and
Sanchez Arengo to the Station representative. he had also turned over a
report of Martinez Fraga on the aims of the Recaveracion de la Revolucion.

3. Mr. (Lopez) report was taped and a transcript will be forwarded
to by PP/PA.

4. Specific recommendations made by Mr. Lopez included having
Herbert Matthews go to Havava and try to influence Castro. Matthews
has a good reputation throughout the 25th of July Novement and could
help in an approach to Castro. A visit by Ei Hurrow to do a broadcast
on Cuba was also recommended. Mr. (Lopez) feels that Castro will be in
power for a long time to come and that we should try to influence him.
He is seriously affected by any defections and these right be encouraged.
Castro can be hit by defections of overworked and countermanded officials.
Two men who were mentioned as ripe for defection are ufo in Hacienda
and Cepero in Comercio. Lopez also recommended contact with Padre
Alberto de Castro in Caracas. This padre was formerly Fidel's instructor.
When Fidel was in Caracas he was scolded by Padre Castro whom Fidel
treated with great respect according to Bosso. The Padre and Fidel spent
about one and one half hours alone together at this time. This priest
should be checked as a possible influence on Fidel. The possibility of
a split between Fidel and Raul should be exploited. Raul is cold and
mean and the fact that he is Fidel's brother does not carry too much
weight.

SECRET
