14-00000
104-10092-10340
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WH 8-

INFO: CI, CI/OPS, CI/CA, FI, SR 7, RF, VR

SECRET 0823152
DIR CITE MEXI 6445

LOIMOD OVE 24.06

1. REQUEST TRACES AND INITIATION POA ON HECTOR RAFAEL LAPA
VAZQUEZ BORN 8 AUG 1928 MEXICO CITY. SUBJ RESIDED CHICAGO APR 1927-

FIRST WIFE (NU) U.S. NATIONAL, HAS FOLL US, NATIONAL DAUGHTERS:
MRS. GRACIELLA PONZIO RESIDING 235 FREDERICK LANE, ROSSELLE.

PRICILLA LAVOCKI, ALSO IN POSSELLE. MEXI HAS NO TRACES ANY BROVE

2. LAPA ADVISED EME SECURITY OFFICER 20 SEPT THAT WAS AT PARTY
WEEK EARLIER WITH SOV FIRST SEC SERGEY SEPERYEVICH KONSTANTINOV
(SUSPECT KGB PESIDENT)] [TASS CORRESPONDENT PIOTR FEDOTOV] AND THIRD
SOV (NU) PARTY AT HOME OF VIRGINIA GOMEZ NIETO] OTHER PERSON IN
ATTENDANCE WAS GOMEZ BOYFRIEND RICARDO POERY CERVANTES. INTERRELATIONSHIP
OF ABOVE IS THAT GOMEZ IS SUB WIFE'S HAIR DRESSER, [GOMEZ] NTRODUCED
SUBJ TO [POERY] ABOUT TWO MONTHS AGO. [POERY] IS PROMINENT MEXICAN
JOURNALIST OF EXTREME LEFTIST ORIENTATION AND [PRESIDENT] OF MEXICO

ACCOSIATION OF JOURNALISTS. COMMON GROUND BETWEEN [POERY] AND
THAT LATTER IS SUCCESSFIL ADVERTISING SALESMAN AND DUPUOLICY

GALICIA CHAIN NEWSPAPERS WHICH CONSERVATIVE. IS ALSO
ASSOCIATION

TOLD THE SECURITY OFFICES, AND LATER GESTETNER, THAT

15417

14-00000

MESSAGE

RESTARIZED HON CONTACT SINCE HE PRO AMERICAN AND DOES NOT WANT
JEOPARDIZE HIS PRIVILEGE TRAVEL WIS., NOR JEOPARDIZE POSITION WIS
DAUGHTER'S. ASKED WHETHER SHOULD CONTINUE SER SOUS WHO TENTATIVELY
INVITED HIM PARTY NEAR FUTIPE.

4. MEXI TOLD SUBJ TAKE NO INITIATIVE WITH SOUS BUT FOR PRESENT
ACCEPT INVITES, THUS INTEREST COVELICITY COV REALITIES, NOT

CHANGE CONSERVATIVE POLITICAL STANCE WHICH SUBJ SAYS KNOWN [POERY.]

5. 8 OCT SUBJ REPORTED MET [FEDOTQV] AT JOURNALIST ASSOCIATION MEETING
8 OCT. LATTER ENTERTAINED [FEDOTOV] AND [NIETD] AT DINNER.

[FEDOTQV] AGAIN TENDERED [ANIDIQUE, FUTURE INVITE.]

6. TOO EARLY SPECIFICALLY DEUIL OBJECTIVE SUBJ UTILIZATION, BUT IF
POSSIBLE WILL PUSH WILL [GOVEZ] AGAINST [FEDOTQV] OR [KONSTANTINOV.]
BASIS DESCRIPTION, THIRD CAN AT FIRST PARTY COULD BE [SOV INFO
ELLIOTIN SEP SERGEY SEMYONOVICH KUWHARECKO] ACCORDING LIENVOY.
SHES, LATTER WAS PECILIAN PERIPERICPERSONALITY, FREQUENTLY TALKS
CIGHAPAGINGLY OF SOVAND, GETS DRUNK OFTEN, IS ON POOR TERMS WITH
CRAL SOVERS OFFICERS.) IF OP DEVELOPS, NO FUNDING NECESSARY.

SECRET

#15417
