104-10187-10113
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL
COPIES 32
SECRET
FROM SAN SALVATEIS
ACTION WH8
INFO DD WR. FILE
SECRET 36221CZ
DIR CITE SALV 5312
WHDIV CUBA CUBAN DETECTOR
REFS A. SALV 5333 (IN83009)*
B. DIR 53380
CUBAN DEFECTOR
1.ANDAONCE EACH ALONE AND ONCE TOGETHER SAW
DALTON
MORNING 30 SEPTEMBER. TOON SAME POSITION AS PARA 2 REF A.
DENIED KNOWING DESPITE CASE OFFICER RELATIONSHIP, REFUSED DISCUSS
CUBAN DEFECTOR
ANYTHING ABOUT CUSAN INTEL, AND SEGGED FOR RELEASE AND EXILE TO START
LIFE ANEW.
DALTON
2. OBTA IN ING TRUTH FROM FILL BE TIME CONSUMING. HE FULLY
AWARE PROOFS AGAINST HIM BUT PROBABLY HOPES POLITICAL PRESSURE WILL FORCE
RELEASE AND PROBABLY FEARS ADMISSION OF HIS COMPLICITY WILL NOT HELP
HIM. SALV COVT MUST CONVINCE HIM HE WRONG ON BOTH COUNTS. HE OF
DUBIOU'S VALUE INSOFAR AS CONTRIBUTING NEW INFO ABOUT PAST ACTIVITIES
OF CUBAN INTEL OR PCES BUT OF CONSIDERABLE INTEREST AS AGENT IF HE
CAN BE TARGETTED AGAINST CUBAN INTEL OR PCES. IF RELEASED WOULD BE
CUBAN DEFECTOR
DEFINITE OBSTACLE TO FURTHER OPS AGAINST TARGETS. IF HE SHOULD
DOUBLED, HIS IMPRISONMENT WOULD COVER RECRUITMENT AND WOULD TEND TO
ENHANCE HIS VALUE. PROBABLY WOULD BE MOST USEFUL OUTSIDE SALV
INCLUDING MEXI AND CUSA.

SECRET

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
IN PAGE
3. AS MATTERS STAND MOST IMPORTANT TO PROTECT EQUITY IN
CUSAN Target
CIA
C OF GREAT PEOMISE. THIS OP COULD BE AFFECTED ADVERSELY
CUBAN DE ECTOR
BY SPREAD OF NELS ABOUT EFFORTS ON DOALS OF TO EFFECT
RECRUITMENTS. BECAUSE OF VALUE OF
PREFER FOR PRESENT NOT
TO PROCEED AGAINST OTHERS WHO RECEIVED INTEL TRAINING. AFTER
CIA
IS PPCDUCING AND AFTER PRUDENT INTERVALCAN PROCEED WITH
RECRUITMENT EFFORT AGAINST OTHERS EITHER UNILATERALLY OR WITH LIAISON
DEPENDING ON DEVELOPMENTS..
4. PROCEEDING WITH ARREST OF GUERRILLOS TRAINED IN CUBA PROBABLY
CUBAN PEFECTOR
VOULD BE PENSFICIAL AS LONG AS NOT ATTRIBUTED TO
SOME OF THOSE DETAINED MIGHT BE DOUELED
AND TARGETTED AGAINST GUERRILLA GROUPS OR PCES.
5. APPRECIATE PEF B TO WHICH WILL REPLY AFTER DISCUSSING FURTHER
PROSPECTS AND GOVT INTENTIONS WITH
AISON
AND POSSIBLY PRESIDENT.

SECRET
