1104-10066-10076
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 DI-CR
3 July '74

MEMO FOR FILE

SUBJECT C : OTS (late TSD) and Jim McCord's Cuban Activities

1. Ben Colling phoned to say that one of the fellows in jail
is still around, and after he got out he inquired around and got no
indication that McCord was ever involved. None of the other OTS people
have any recollection of McCord's involvement.

2. I said that I was sure that the man who was rolled up
might not have any idea of McCord's involvement, if indeed he was
involved. If McCord's involvelement was merely headquarters planning
and no releasing operation was ever undertaken his role might never
surface. However, we had been told that planning did involve TSD
people at the time, along with security. For instance, I knew that
the Security man with TSD at the time had a job of hand-holding with
the families of the three men; there may be some TSD record of that
which would lead to someone who would know.

3. Colling was pulled out of a staff meeting to talk to me and
said he would call back later.

SDB
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

6574

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

20 September 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR: DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE
SUBJECT
Summary of(STESCALADE - Audio Operation
Against the New China News Agency in Havana

1. In May 1959, the New China News Agency (NCNA) opened
an office in Havana in the El Medico Building which is occupied
partly by business concerns and partly used for residential apart-
ments. Shortly thereafter, the Havana Station obtained the con
currence of Ambassador Bonsal and Miss Carolyn O. Stacey, en
Embassy employee, to mount an audio operation against NCNA through
the wall of the adjacent apartment in which Miss Stacey lived. In
November 1959, the FE Division sent one case officer and one TSD
technician to Havana, and the installation of a microphone and tape
recorder was completed in Miss Stacey's apartment on 29 November
1959.

2. By June 1960, it had become evident that two other rooms
occupied by NCNA possibly housed communication equipment and
were used for conferences. At that time Bryan Mills) FE Division
case officer, went to Havana and explored the possibility of improving
the operation, He managed to lease an apartment directly over the
NCNA office and arranged for a stay-behind agent to occupy this space,

3. In August 1960, a team of three TSD technicians who were
in Havana on a separate SR Division operation agreed to install the
additional equipment required for the NCNA operation. A second FE
Division case officer, Robert Neet, came down to Havana; and he,
together with the technicians, installed probe microphone and tape
recorder in the apartment obtained by (Mills over the NCNA office.
About this time the equipment was removed from Miss Stacey's
apartment, with the exception of the plastic probe which was left
in the wall and plastered over,

6592

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

4. As an additional security precaution to provide a safe
haven, and after consultation with the Acting Chief of Station, a key
to an apartment in the same building leased by Mrs. Marjorie
Lennox, an Embassy secretary, was cotained, Mrs. Lennox was
told that access to her apartment was needed for photographic
surveillance purposes,

5. The Station was then faced with the probability that time
and security would work against holding indefinitely the lease to
the apartment over NCNA since the owners of the building were
cancelling sub-lessors' contracts and recalling leases. It was,
therefore, decided to install transmitters and switches in order to
permit continued monitoring of the target from a distant listening
post. Another three-man team of TSD technicians consisting of
David L. Christ (alias Carswell), Walter E. Szuminski (alias
Taransky) and Thornton J. Anderson (alias Danbrunt) documented
as tourists had been sent to Havana to install audio equipment in the
Chinese Nationalist Embassy before it was due to be turned over to
the Chinese Communits. This operation aborted. This team was
then sent to work on the installation of the transmitters in the apart-
ment over the NCNA office.

6. At 2400 hours on 14 September, Christ, who with the
other technicians was working in the target apartment, failed to keep
a scheduled appointment with Neet. At 0100 hours on the 15th of
September, the apartment of Mrs. Lennox was entered into and
searched by Cuban authorities, and she was taken into custody. At
1540 hours on 15 September, Neet, the stay-behind agent and his wife-
were picked up by the Cuban authorities and detained.

7. As of today the agent remains in the custody of the Cuban
authorities, His wife has been released and is still in Havana, Neet
was released. 1715 hours 16 September and has subsequently returned..
to Washington where he is being debriefed. Mrs. Lennox was
subsequently released and has also returned to Washington where she
is being debriefed, The three TSD technicians remain in confinement,
They have been seen in confinement but not contacted by an Embassy
officer when he first attempted to secure the release of Mrs. Lennox.
Christ was last seen by Neet when they were jointly interrogated
the morning of 15 September. At that time Christ did not appear
-2-
S-E-C-R-E-T

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T
:
to have been maltreated.

8. According to articles in the Cuban papers the three
technicians were arrested while in the apartment over the NCNA
office and completing the installation of the equipment. The
press article adds that the key to Mrs, Lennox's apartment was
found on one of the technicians who identified the apartment to
which it belonged. All Cuban press releases have referred to the
men by alias and have not. identified them as Government or Agency
employees. It is unclear at present what story had been agreed
upon by the technicians and station personnel to be used in the event
they were caught. (While being interrogated with Neet, Christ
indicated that Neet was his boss, and Neet consistently denied.any
knowledge as to why he was being held,) The sub-lease for the
apartment in which the men were caught is in the name of the stay-
behind agent with the original lease being in the name of Mills) the
FE Division Case Officer.

9. Initial information indicated that the three technicians would
be charged with espionage "against the people of China". Subsequent
press releases have been unclear on this point. An attempt by Consul
Hugh Kessler to contact the three men at 1730 hours on 17 September
was unsuccessful. He was not permitted to see them but was told
they were in custody.

10. The three technicians travelled to Cuba as tourists. under
very light commercial cover, two of them working for a company in
New York and the third, one in Baltimore. In each case the cover
company consists of a telephone answering service and a name on the
door. Telephone messages and mail are picked up periodically by an
Agency contract employee. The men were provided with this cover
as well as unbackstopped home addresses for use when entering or..
leaving Cuba as tourists since the filling out of the landing cardذ
requires this information. Subsequent to their detention the home
addresses have been partially backstopped so that inquiries will
indicate that someone with this alias name had lived in the apartment
house in question. Insofar as the cover companies are concerned,
efforts are being made to provide a backstop to withstand inquiries
from the press should the Cubans reveal this information. In view
-3-

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

cf the thinness of the cover, it is uncertain whether this will succeed.

11. A cleared and wetting law firm in New York has been briefed
by Mr. L. Houston on the situation with the thought that inquiries
received by the cover company could be referred to the firm of
lawyers from whom no comment would be obtained by the press or
other inquirers. The law firm has been briefed on the entire situa-
tion so that they may be in a position to act if any action by them
appears desirable or feasible. It would not appear that much support
of any kind can be obtained from the law firm or the law firms.in
Cuba which are associated with them,

12. Insofar as the families are concerned, one of the technicians.
is a bachelor presently on home leave between two tours in Japan)
His father, a cook in a diner in the Boston area, has been contacted
by the Office of Security, and he will get in touch with Security if
he receives any inquiries on this matter. Security, by the same
token, will keep in touch with him as the Cubans reveal their inten-
tions and course of action.

13. The wives of the other two technicians have been told what
has happened and are being contacted at least once daily by TSD
staffers and their wives who have been briefed on the situation. A
conference with the two wives was held in TSD'on 19 September to go
over the whole situation and determine if there were any personal
problems on which the Agency could be of help. For the time being
the wives are telling their neighbors that their husbands are on a
trip. This story will be adjusted depending on what course of action
the Cuban Government takes, whether the aliases remain unbroken
and whether recognizable photographs of the individuals aze released
to the press. The two wives so far have taken the bad news exceedingly
well.

Distribution:
DCI - 2
DDCI - 1
DD/P - 1
COPS - 1
WH 3
1
OS
CI-I
RUDOLPH E. GOMEZ
Acting Chief, WH

S-E-C-R-E-T

14-00000

02
20 September 1956
MEMORANDUM RE STESCALADE
record
There is a folder of sensitive non-CS/material pertaining to this
operation, retired under Black Tape wrapping, Job #57-86/78, restricted
to Offices of DCI, DDCI, DDP, C/WH, C/WH/PL, C/WH/C, C/CI, C/TSD, Director
of Security and General Counsel. China Operations is not cited as an
originator, addressee, or info recipient of any of this sensitive
R
material..
WH/RMO

Viviqu
7334
SECRET

06593

14-00000

RELEASE CONTINGENCY OPLÀN 62-2
CHART OR MAY REGURENCE:

Sectional wrocautinat darts

TASK ORGANIZATION:

Det. 1, 1045th Operational En.ussion and Iridating Grap Major
Billy B. Carpbell, Comcenter.
1.. SIJATION:

Laniel L. Caravell (live), tees H. Fumbras (Aliss) and Fiord
R. Teransky (Alius) are TD Starployees who were srpretonted by
Cuben authorities in September 195 and who are bir seving ban year seuta-
Efforts are being made to sure their release. See their release
nay cour without advanus nendee e at a variety of ploto, lo. Havaca,
Minad, Mexico City, Switzerhrd, Smal, ats, it is imperigre that a
contingenty plas be formlated to sure thesaurе генетсon of these
epicyees.

The controlling funtar in all
wes of the stiere proredare is
that these employees were in Case
for alive and that during the entire
pericd since their opture their
fant over storten opparently
have been edatscued. Therefore is tusential that there idares b
caintainai until such fe as thepines here not ic Agency da
trol and then have these instamper es que se p
tle.

For pisoning purposes the spelet il es ca, Nordeo
City or other em".
2. 135IN:

Tet. 1, 10th Operaxel Elation and Toes wing Ostup provide
black eir transport
of my CG0s to the designated sut:
kret,
3. EROTICE:

A. alsck menstr
request of
sex,
Spending the alan wal
greude rater what fler st the
staten/(5/30s
sed sport

6594

14-00000

3. Request for black transport should ind is:

1. Request that RELEASE CONTINGENCY OPLAN 62-2 be implemented.

2. Port of entry.

3. Date, Local time, aaa ciršleld desired for pick up,

4. Desired destination.

5. Other requirements, ie,, stretchers or bunks in the event
subjects are hospital cases.

6. Mane, organization and telephona maber of requesting party.

7. Name and telephone nucber of KUBARK ontents et loating
and off-ineling points.

C. The following personnel are knowledgeable and charged with the
responsibility of activating hin plan:

1. Major Richard. I. Skaner, C/ASD/DO/P
Organization: Air Support Division, DD
Home Phone: JE 3-11:09
Office Phone: Sterile Numbers MB 8-6235, EX 3-8515
Extensions 6862,7654,7367
Red Line 1058

2. Mr. Robert Mrrero
Organization: Air Support Dizisica, DW/F.
Home Phone: JA 4-3598
Office Phone: Same as 1.

3. Major Billy B. Campbell, Comender, Dat. I.
Organization: Dat. 1, 1045th Cherational Galation and
Trebbing Crow, Egli Air Force Base, Floridou.
Home Phone: 662737
Office Phone: Eglin Air Force Desu, Florida 631590

4. Major Kemeth R. Burton, Ops Offfor, Det. 3.
Organization: Dat. 1, 1045 Operational. Evaluation and
Training Group, Egila Air Force Basa, Florida)
Home Phone: 66245%
Office Fhone: Eglin Ak Force Beze, Firida 631213

S-E-C-R-3-7

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

-3-

D. Det. 1. furnish 1 6-54 and are cres in stemiby capacity until
further notice. Staniby capacity is heroin defined as espability t
position the aircraft at any port of entry in east, south or southvost
U. S. From Easton to Los Angeles within 15 hours.

E. Assurring the subjects will be released in Havana or Mexico
City, Det, 1 will prepare mission folders for flights from mest
probeble ports of entry to Isolation and Andrews Air Forca Base,

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 CI Stelf
3 OS
3-
3-S
3-C/FE
3- C/TSD
3-
COG
3-
3- c/wa
DDR/מת - 3

RI RICHARD I. SKINNER
