14-00000
104-10172-10041
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
FROM: R137
KOUTING AND RECORD SHEET

NOTE: In the sbsence of comments or indication of ection
Poten this cover sheet will be destroyed when the
document is flod

TO  NOOM  DATE  OFFICER
NO  PAD  RECEIVED   INITIALS

1    AL6
25

2  L
3  WH/III pad 1953  chona
4  Caulit/Fl  Luck
5  PP

6 
7
8
9. RECORD COPY
10  01/60  22
11  
12
13

14
15  Rid/AN  18 MAR 1970
16  KID/50
17
18

19  whi
20  RID/FF

ENCLOSURE  ABSTRACT  FILE NUMBER

DATE MICROFILMED  INDEX  DOCUMENT CATE
I. Quin 11959 1959

FORM   USE PREVIOUS  DOCUMENT NUMBER
4-68  EDITIONS  HKH -02130
SECRET

14-00000
FROM: Habana
OPERATIONAL AND SOURCE COVER SHEET
REPORT MADE BY: Nelson L. Raynock/psa 1AE
hey
REPORT APPROVED BY: Woodrow C. Olien
DATE OF REPORT: 21 August 1959
DISTRIBUTION:
By copy to: 5 - Headquarters v/nat
1  - Embassy (Eccronic Counselor)
Orally to: 1 - Legal Attaché
2 - Filos

SOURCE CRYPΡΙΟΝΥΜ: See Commonts below
SOURCE, OPERATIONAL DATA, AND COMMENTS:
SUBJECT: Cuban Economic Crisis
HAR-2130
REFORT NO.:
NUMBER PAGES: 2
NUMBER ENCLOSURES: None
REFERENCES: None

Field File No. 6-0-120
ID NO.:
KRYPTON: Yes No

OPERATIONAL COPMENTS
05.

Source Alberto FERNANDEZ Rechavarria, the chief of the Cuban Sugar Stabilisation
Board who has the job of selling Cuba's sugar, A former active mber of the 26 of
July Movement during the revolution, he is now disillusioned, and reportedly is not
going to last much longer in his job. He is wealthy and his fazily have lost
through CASTRO's economic reforms. He appears to know a lot about the government and
also seems to have an insight into CASTRO... He regards CASTRO as some type of a
UNIVAC machine, his mind automatically photostating details which he can and will use
in the future. He says that CASTRO is ruthless, and that nothing can stop him in his
determination to do something, 1.6., agrarian reform, and that he will sacrifice his
friends, his family, his money, and his fortune to accomplish his purpose.

Again illustrating the present situation in Cuba, the source said that he cannot
publicly have contacts with American officials-refusing to let the writer use his
telephone and he said that a record is kept of all his calls and that his movements
are periodically checked.

The advisor who warned CASTRO in paragraph one of the attached report, was the
source.

As a possible reference to this report and particularly to field comment number
two, see HAVA-2526.
TOCS-31400, 583

The second source referred to in Field Comsant No. 2 was AMPACK-1 who obtained
his information from the president of the Banco Industrial de Cuba.
08.

FORM
APR 1953
51-59
PREVIOUS EDITIONS HAY EL ιια
CS COPI

HXH-2130
201-251853
14-00000
FIELD INFORMATION REPORT
EVALUATION OF SOURCE
A. Car sietely relighte
1. Usually rea
sources of doubtral bonesty or loyalty, regardless of their competence),
tested sources,
PPPRAISAL CONTENT
C. Famyable
( Hot reliabl 'Arpied to
el canin toisie Asphed to untested or la mullitentig
2. Probably true. 1. Passe
1. Confirmed by other independent ant reliable sources
felse 6. Cannot be judged. Documentary. Based on original document.
4. Doubtful Smoussy
COUNTRY Cuba
SUBJECT CCuban Economic Crisis
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
REPORT NO.
ΗΚΗ-2130
DATE OF REPORT
21 August 1959
NO. OF PAGES
2.
REFERENCES
None

DATE OF
INFO.
PLACE &
July-August 1959
DATE ACQ. Cuba, Fabana (20 August 1959)
SOURCE EVALUATIONS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE. NOTE FOREGOING EXPLANATION.
SOURCE
Cuban Coverment official (F).
Appraisal of Contents 3
1. Contrary to the reports which are issued by the Cuban Government, the
financial status of the Cuban economy is rapidly deteriorating and
beconing a serious problem. During July 1959 an advisor to Prime
Minister Fidel CASTRO Rua) warned him to proceed more alowly with the
agrarian reform, because the Cuban treasury was running short of funds.
It was pointed out that 57 sugar mills were barkrupt and had not paid
the plantation owners for the 1959 sugar crop. CASTRO was told that
if the reckless confiscation of agricultural properties continued, the
Cuban Goverment would become obligated to assume even more debts in
order to alleviate the hunger of farm workers.1
2. Another drain va the economy is government subsidies. For example,
the danco de Desarrollo Economico y Social (BANDES, Social and
Economic Development Bank) controls about U. S. $400 million in
properties and investments such as the Compañia Cubana de Aviacion
(Cuban Airline Company). The companies have been caught in the
present contraction of capital and cannot survive without goverment
subsidies. The subsidies paid by BAIDES amount to U. S. $8 million
a month, and this is only one exemple of the many payments which are
draining the Cuban treasury.2
Field Comments.
1. From the reports which have been received it appears that there is
growing unemployment of farm workers. This is the "dead season"-
the period between sugar cene harvests--but it is reported that
most plantation owners and ranchers are fearful of confiscation of
their properties for the agrarian-reform program/ and consequently
are doing very little in the way of maintenance work. The latter
provided at least a marginal field of employment, and this is nov
denied to the agricultural workers. However, In spite of this
warning, the agrarian reform program has not been alowed. In
fact, it seems to have been intensified.
:
DISTRIBUTION
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
1
221-25183.
14-00000
:
C-O-N-F-T-D-5
-2-
-T-X-A-L

2. The source thought that nothing could stop CASTRO in his determination
to proceed with the agrarian reform program as fast as possible. Since
the biggest obstacle to carrying out this program is the lack of money
the source was of the opinion that CASTRO would do anything to obtain
this money and might even confiscate bank accounts and moneys and nego-
tiable instruments held in safety deposit boxes. Carrying this one
step furthar, the yource thought such confiscatory tactics could only.
be a temporary saving device and that eventually it would be necessary
for CASTI to obtain a large loan from another country. He speculated
that this veald mean either the United States or the Soviet Union, and
feared that if it were the lattery it would mean the end of friendly
relations with the United States. In respect to CASTRO's possible
need for a loan, another, fairly reliable, source reported on 18 August
1959 that Casa) was trying to obtain a 30,000,000-peso loan from locat
banks.
Cuban
עכל
NEY
SI
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

513
201-257853
251153
.:
