14-00000
104-10194-10024
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL RIVIERED AT GIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMEPERS
SECRET
FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: HUNT, E. HOWARD (CONTRACT
:
INCLUSIVE DATES:
1965-3 clec 1970
Jumsary 1965-3
6
OP
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
DELETIONS, IF ANY:
ROOM: 5E13

DATE
RECEIVED
DATE
RETURNED
2/28/78 2/28/78
3/15/18/3/15/78
REVIEWED BY
(PRINT NAME)
SIGNATURE OF
REVIEWING OFFICIAL
DAN HESTWAY Kniturday
DAN HARDWAY Dan Handay

TS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE
SECRET
CRABANAC,
Terence S.

14-00000
Contruct SULLI-
- Terence S Crating (P) 65
Fourmus stof Empt
#FFFFFF
4 July 65 Hered arce Continid E
Employel
with
8
Civel Service Ritiumut, CPAscunlPSIS. 19,550 6515/7
100d (5. LTI
3、よし 66 LPI
1
17 Sept 66 Contract Terminaled
4.
20,595 65-15/7
21,192 GS-15/7
21,192 GS-15/7
Convented to Stoff Employer Slutus
t
:

14-00000
Thi
SEしハに
MEMORANDUM FOR: Office of Finance
03/0
THROUGH
: Chief, Contract Personnel Division
SUBJECT
: Engagement of E. Howard Hunt as Independent
Contr ctor Under Men orandum of Orl Contract
1. Effective 2 November 1970, subject was retained under
oral contract to write citation concerning on employee of CIA for
of $250.00. The completed cittion was delivered to and a accepted by
CIA on 23 November 1970.
-1 fee
2. Subject is a former CIA Staff Employee who retired effective
30 April 1970.
3. Subject is to be paid his fee of $250.00 under Fan Account
Number 1176-0041. At Mr. Hant's request, payment is to be made in the
form of two sterile checks, one in the mount of $200.00 pmy ble to the
Public Service Aid Society, and the second in the amount of $50,00 payable
to the Educational Aid Fund. Please forward both checks to Mr. Ben
DeFelice, 5E-67 Headquarters,
4. No other commitmeats have been made to subject.
APPROVED:
Chief, Contract Personnel Division
Approving Officer
Office of Personnel
3300 1970
68.1
SECRET
Exrteses a
2.16 י
Date

14-00000
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT:
1 June 1967
Ierence. 5. CRABANAC
on instructions of the Deputy Director for Plans,
and with approvals from the DCJ and the DDCI, was converted
to contract employment and assigned to Spain for a special
wadertaking in behalf of the DD/P. He left for Spain in July
1965 and returned to the U. S. in June 1966 having completed
his assignment successfully. If an evaluative comment is needed
to cover his work during this period of time he should be rated
as "strong".
Thomas H. Karamèssines
Assistant Deputy Director for Plans
Orig & 1- Director of Personnel
VAC/EUR
1- ADD/P

14-00000
SECRET
3 October 1966
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, TRB
SUBJECT
: Verification of Contract Service for
CFHBOON VIC
1. The following is a record of subject's contract service with
the Agency:
Date
Compensation
-
10 October 1965
4 July 1965
3 July 1966
17 September 1966
Action
Contract Employee
Salary Increase
Salary Increase
Contract Terminated
$19, 880 per annum
$20,595 per annun
$21, 192 per annum
$21, 192 per annum
2. All of above service is creditable for both leave and Civil
Service Retirement purposes.
Distribution:
Orig &1 Addressee
2- CPD
Dow H. Luetscher.
Chief, Contract Personnel Division
ET

14-00000
SECRET
26 SEP 1835
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division
ATTENTION
:
Paul R. Wilson
SUBJECT
:
Verification of Contract Service
"KHOANAC, Frimee S
In order to establish the salary, LCD and to compute
the SCD for both leave and retirement purposes, it is
necessary to verify the contract service and salary of
DOB October 1918,
who claims employ-
ment with this Agency in a contract status from 4 July 1965
to 17 September 1966.
Lowell
Lowell P. Moore
Deputy Chief, Transactions & Records Branch
SECRET
G1

14-00000
SECRET
This is to advise that effective 17 September 1966 I will
resign from employment with the United States Government as
provided in the contractual agreement effective 4 July 1965.
It is understood that my status as a Staff Employee will be
effective 18 September 1966, the day following my resignation
as a Contract Employee.
APPROVED:
Terence S. CRABANAC
European Contract Approving Officer
Date
APPROVED:
18/ Dow H. Luetscher
Special Contracting Officer
REVIEWED:
167 Dow H. Luetscher.
Estat
rasinga

14-00000
SECRET
14 July 1966
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Terence S. CRABANAC (P)
The ADDP requested the writer to personnally bring
I was informed
CRABANAC's file to him for review this date.
by Mr. Karamessines that Subject has now returned to
headquarters for reassignment and will not be returning to
Madrid, as his duties have been fulfilled there.
When the DDP decides CRABANAC's next assignment, ADDP will
inform us of such and action desired. CRABANAC's travel
accounting was given to C/E/B&F for preparation and processing
of the voucher for Subject's return travel.
Meals Prancis
Charles J. Francis
AC/E/SS
CFrancis/cls: 14 Jul 66
SECRET

14-00000
S
8 NO 18SS
MAJORANDON FOR: Deputy Director for Support
SUBJECT:
Roquest for Exception to Provision of
FR 45-10D
Terence 8. CRABANAC (P)
-
1. This momorandum contains a recommendation in para-
graph & for the approval of the Deputy Director for Support.
2. Terence 8. CRABANAC (F) is a Contract Employee as
signed to the Madrid area in Spain in a sensitive assignment
since his conversion from a Staff Baployee on 4 July 1965.
CHABANAC was a G3-15, stop 7 ($19,880.00 per annus) and be
is being paid at the same rate in Na present contract
status. His contract provides that he will be entitled to
a living quartero allowance in conformance with regulations
of this organization applicable to its appointed personnel.
3. The basic living quarters allowance for Class II
officers in Madrid is $2,900 per annus. The house which
CRABANAC has located, with a one year lease from 15 November
1965 to 14 November 1966, has an annual rent of $6,600.00
excluding utilitios. Therefore, for rent alone, he will be
$1,960.00 per year over the 160 percent maximus allowed
under the provisions of FE 45-10b. On a 75/25 percent
sharing besis of the 60 percent over the quarters allowance,
he would be out of pocket $8,395.00.
4. Due to the operational sensitivity of CRABANAC'S
assignment, his request formlief on his housing costs was
handled by Mr. Thomas Kansies, A. On 15 September
1005, Ur. Xaranossines, ADDF, approved his being reimbursed
on a 78/33 percent basis for the excess allowable costs up
to, but not to exceed, 60 percent above his quarters allowance.
This authorization was included in a letter to CRABANAC from
Mr. Karasossines. It is requested that the Deputy Director

14-00000
for Support authorize the 75/35 percent sharing of the exces
allovable costs up to 60 percent above his quarters allowance,
/S/
Edward Ryan
Acting Chief
Vestern Europe Division
Recommendation in paragraph 4
Le authorized:
Charles M. Davis
Deputy Director for Support
DDP/VE/88: DavisB.Powell/aj/6189 (8Nov65)
Distribution:
Orig.
C/WE
2-SSA-DD/S
1 C/WE/SS
-
1 - WE/LO
1 WE/PT
-
1 WK/BF
-
1 - WE/5
9 NOV 1965
Dato

14-00000
SECRET
ATT
Referenes
Chief, Vostern Burope Division
: Support Staff
Compensation and fax Fivision
Office of Finance
Paty Status Reports-ference S. CRABARAC, Fmployce
Number 179080
FEB. 20-1000-1, paragraph 5.
18 October 1965
1. To date there is no record of receipt of Forms 764,
Paty Status Reports, for Terence S. CRABABAC since his ROD
4 July 1965. Those reports are required in order to maintain
his leave account in accordance with the terms of paragraph:
6(e) of his eontract and to preeludo action to withhold pay in
accordance with requirements of the referenced handbook.
2. It is requested that this office be advised as to
the reason for the delay in the submission of these Duty Status
Reporte.
TO:
LUCILE P. THCOMOD
Chief,
Contrast Employees Accounts Section
Agent Payroll Orench
Compensat agion and Tax Division
Office or l'inance
ATTENTION: Lucile F. Twogood
FROM:
Chief of Support, WE Division
Per conversation with Mr. Thosas Keramessines, ADDP,
there will be no Duty Status Reports (Form 764) submitted
on Terence S. CRABANAC. This should be used as the authority
to continue his pay without these reports.
SECRET
Davis B. Povell
Chief of Support
WE Division
201
nhat.

14-00000
October 18, 1965
Dear Howard,
Your insurance representative has passed along some
information concerning reimbursement to you by means of
deposits to your bank account. So that you will understand
the reason and the source of deposits which show up on your
bank statement, here is the run-down for the present:
Amount of
Deposit
$ 5.00
Approx Date
of Deposit
Sep 9
$216.06
Oct 7
Reason for Payment
Settlement of claim for
son Howard (settlement
sheet enclosed)
Settlement of following
claims:
You...........$
47.68
Lisa...
112.88
Kevan..
24.50
Howard...
31.00
$ 216.06
(Four settlement sheets
are enclosed.)
$505.75
Oct 7
Settlement of following
claims:
Lisa..........$ 112.49
Kevan....
63.75
Kevan...
189.74
...
Lisa....
139.77
$ 505.75
$ 60.00
To be made
Nov 4
(Four settlement sheets
Refund of advance premium
payments made on your life
insurance policy which you
cancelled.
I am also forwarding herewith some bills and receipts
which your insurance representative has returned with
appropriate notations on each. I believe you will want to
retain these for possible future use.
are enclosed.)
Sincerely,
John

14-00000
SECRET
4 October 1965
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division,
Office of Personnel
SUBJECT
:
Terence S. CRABANAC (P), Contract Employee
Request for Contract Amendment
1. It is requested that Subject's contract, which
was effective 4 July 1965, be amended with respect to
living quarters allowances so as to authorize reim-
bursement for 75% of the excess allowable costs up to,
but not in excess of, 60% of the standardized quarters
allowance.
2. The proposal for this 75%/25% sharing basis,
in lieu of the standard 50%/50% basis, has been reviewed
and approved by Mr. Thomas H. Karamessines.
Rinia B. Pavell
Davis B. Powell
Chief, WE Support Staff
しに
SECRET

14-00000
SECRET
15 September 1965
MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Thomas H. Karamessines
SUBJECT
: Madrid Housing
:
1. The following is a listing of the GS-13 and above
staff employees and their quarters costs as of April 1965:
Grade & No. of
Dependents
(COS)GS-16 (3)
Allowance
$2,900
2,900
Cost
$4,236
3,132
1,800
Cost to
Individual
All cost paid
$116
1117
GS-15 (1)
GS-15 (0)
2,000
GS-14 (5)
2,900
2,796
0
GS-14 (5)
2,900
3,840
450
GS-13 (3)
GS-13 (3)
2,000
2,000
2,280
2,472
GS-13 (5)
2,000
2,544
140
236
272
2. Mr. Hunt's quarters allowance is $2,900. Using
the same formula as applied to the other staff employees
at the Station, the following would be the figures:
$2,900 + 60% ($1,740) - $4,640
On a 50/50 percent sharing basis of the 60 percent, he
would be out-of-pocket $870 if his costs were $4,6-10.
On a 75/25 percent sharing basis of the 60 percent, he
would be out-of-pocket $435, if his costs were $4,640.
3. I would recommend he be authorized the 75/25 per-
cent sharing basis of the allowable excess costs up to,
but not to exceed, 50 percent above his quarters allowance.
Davin B. Pauer
Davis B. Powell
Chief
WE Support
4640
-435
4205
این
۲
SECRET

14-00000
SECRET
3 September 1965
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division
SUBJECT
REFERENCE
: General - Terrence S. CRABANAC - Supplement
"Offset"
Specific Paragraph Entitled
:
A. OGC Opinion 65-2476a, dated 12 August 1965
B. Our Memo, dated 8 July 1965, Same Subject
1. This office herein recommends an ammendment to CRABANAC's
Supplement dated 4 July 1965, to delete paragraph 7. entitled "Offset."
: 2. This office acknowledges the OGC opinion, Reference A, which
determined CRABANAC may retain without Agency salary offset any future
royalties earned as a result of his literary efforts based on the fact
cover does not include role of a writer.
3. As Subject's cover "activities" have been officially clarified
as being only a light one of a retired Foreign Service Officer for
which the Agency will be making all entitlement payments and actually
he will receive no funds from any cover, this paragraph, which is misleading,
has no meaning in Subject's contract and it is hereby recommended that
it be deleted from CPABANAC's Supplement.
4. Further, in future cases when a cover is so light that Subject
will not be receiving funds from cover it is recommended that no "Offset"
paragraph be included in Supplements or Contracts.
Attachment
Ref. A and B
WILLIAM R. CAULFIELD
Chief, Covert Clains Branch
po action tabiks on
His 내다。
SECT

14-00000
SECRET
OGC 65-2476a
12 AUG 1965
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division
SUBJECT:
Terence S. CRABANAC Retention of
Royalties by a Contract Employee
:
1. You have requested the opinion of this Office in regard to
the retention of future royalties which might be earned by Terence S.
CRABANAC as a result of his literary efforts. We believe that he is
entitled to retain such röyalties without an offset against his Agency
salary.
2. We have been advised by Mr. Gene Stevens, WE/Support, that
CRABANAC's cover does not include the role of a writer; CRABANAC's
cover for status will only be a light one of a retired Foreign Service
Officer. Therefore, paragraph 7 of his contract dated 4 July 1965 may.
remain as written. Royalties from the fictional works that he writes as
a profitable hobby will not be emoluments received from or through his
"cover activities."
cc: Chief, Covert Claims Branch
Mr. Gene Stevens, WE/Support
Normon D. Block
NORMAN D. BLOCK
Office of General Counsel
SECRET

14-00000
MEMORANDUM FOR
:
Office of General Counsel
:
Norman Block
ATTENTION
SUBJECT
:
:
Terence S. Crabanac --
Retention of Royalties by
a Contract Employee
3 AUG 196
1. Reference is made to the telephone conversation
of 26 July 1965 between yourself and Rogers C. Brooks of
this Office wherein bäckground information relating to the
assignment of Terence S. Crabanac was discussed.
:
2. Subject will apparently develop a cover as a writer,
a field wherein he has an already demonstrated talent based
upon several publications. The objective of the cover is to pro-
vide a basis of attribution for some of his income. At the time
of the preparation of Mr. Crabanac's contract, the specific
detail of his cover was unknown.
3. Request your opinion in regard to the retention of
possible royalties earned by Crabanac as a result of his
literary efforts or whether such income should be properly
offset.
Attachments.
Joseph B. Ragan
Chief, Contract Personnel Division
OP/CPD: RCBrooks/cw: 2 August 1965.
Distribution:
Orig & 1-- Addressee
2 - CPD

14-00000
SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIF
ION TOP AND BUTIC
UNCLASSIFIED
CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP
TO
NAME AND ADDRESS
1
2
DATE
INITIALS
3
4
5
6
Wire/PT- St
ACTION
Rel
eancering v.. box
APPROVAL
COMMENT
CONCURRENCE
Remarks:
DIRECT REPLY
DISPATCH
FILE
INFORMATION
21554775.
PREPARE REPLY 923
RECOMMENDATION
RETURN
SIGNATURE
with to intet then to
our file is reviously stitics
there is su risson for buin to
Draw sortition allernen.
touch with inebened
pls surse um scene.
I want
Juin to crit a postiffice. Cof
FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER
FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.
wr
UNCLASSIFIED
FORM NO.
2-61
237
Use previous editions
CONFIDENTIAL
DATE
14
SECRET
(40)
US GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1980-587281

14-00000
Spor Scurity to which he
ean snad lus ferieneind
accourts. Aus will reduce
contact with station.

14-00000
SEOSET
SABANA
July 1965
PLY ACE AREFING REPORT
DATE
:
7 July 1965
OTTU: Contract Fapleyee
SUBJECT
:
Terence CRABANAC
COVER:
Non-Official - Writer
DESTLATION: Madrid Spain
DEPENDENT: Vite and four chine
14 12. 11 and 21
Subject was adviced tot this briefing vas being hold to redes via bia
the offist finnell business and personajecte creted as resuis of
rest of the briering would be prepared
copy would be foresrand to the KUS RX office reponsible for hi
and tus?
dataiutrition.
ما
:
Subject is proceeding abroad as a retired OD CID officer who is now
pursuin; Career on a writer.
Subject and read his Contr.ct. The persons present at the briering vern
Subject: ni wire Division Budget and Piscal Officer, pastoil representi
nd the undersigned Certifying Officer.
The payroll representative briefed Subject regarding alo empensation,
Headquarters payrolled allowances. tox vitholding and doductions.
posed Forele: Daty Data Sheet and used and an official cap will be tent to
the africe daiaistering Subject upon receipt of s astirication Subject has
arrived in piace. The Tax Committee representative had briefed Subject sa
to the procedure by which he will fulfill his Federal tik reporting re dire-
ness see below Section III pntitled 2 ses." All questions Ised by
bubject during the briefing were answered to his agerent stuction. Faero
were two points watch vere to reloved further by WE, they were:
veciaca did
٢.٨.
п. Review of Supplement reistive to quarters allowance being
rolled and non-sccountable.
b. Determimtion of authorition and unt of & Trausport on allowance,
Plans call for Bubject to eat alish Shrough Monetary Division a per
tional de secount. Tais fund will serve his operationincess mite is
Madrid he is to have no (or limiter) catset with the it to digajoints
of the briesing are discussed belon
SECRET
secur
Exctafed from automalic
dsengracians
declassica

14-00000
STGRET
I. Furding and Accounting
A. Headqua ters
(1) Will payroll Subjo t'e compensation (and allowan.es) authorised
deductions..(Specify allowances at applicable)
(2) Will advene PC travel funds and owiit accounting which is to
be submitted by Subject when as wanting cuplete.
(3) will advance funds and receive as ountings to operational fund.
His first accounting will be upon coring into permanent quarters,
and Initially quarterly thereafter, unless activity wariable
more frequent accounting period.
B. Station
will provide only emergenzy support as needed.
C. Cover
will have
ir come
ne problem.
Subit
No Jesucr
from writing.
for went he
should fat
Rosue
time
}
(1)
(2)
Subject has no ligitisate cover from which through agreement with
KUBARK bo would receive payments.
Poragraph 7 entitled OFFear is in question with contraction office
As to what is intended de Cubject's only fococe from cover
ativities appear to be incam from his writings. Subject is
under tapression Incote from writings not to be refundable.
1. Tersis of Contrast and Additional Items
Jutiure
ricewe (11) Allowances
tover inconel
Subject was informed that allowances were subject to flutuation
as a result of Stonderdized or ¡UBANK regulations changes.
from chet (18.) Subject was advised to notify Headquarters of changes to fantly
source,
would be
offeret.
status as such changes would effect allowan.us being payrolled
vbere rates are deterained by Subject's fealiy status.
(12) Receipts
tulject vas advised that a receipt is required where practicable
or a certification in lieu of receipt should be subcitted for oil
reimburseable expe ses in the amount of $15.00 or more.
(20). Travel
Subject was briefed in general regarding reimburscable incidental
expenses and travel catitlesents in regard to his proposed itinerary.
Among the points overed were the following:
4. Per Dien rats applicable to Subject's proposed itinerary
B. Exreas baggage provisions when ceonomy/tourist flights are used
SECRET
(ここ
Excluded from sctomatic
downgrading s
geclicsit.callos

14-00000
SECRET
C. Use of less than first loss at travel accomodations
D. Use of American atelices
(30) Effects Shiprent
Suljeet vas triefed is general regarding his KUBANK authorfastions
as follows!
A. The combtond shipping and storage of household effects to limited
to 13,500 pounds net fo. Subject.
B. Full shipcent is authorized.
C. Subject vas advised the total of the amount of the effects stored
and shipped shall not exceed the lisitations for shipssut and
storage sel forth as 13,500 pounds net.
(31) Unaccompanied Baggage
300 pounde net per traveller which any be used as followst
When entire Journey is by surface treceportation the 300 pound
authorization is to be shipped by surface transportation, or
can be included with household effects shipats.
(33) FOREIGN CUSTOM DUTIES
As Subject to unde non-offtefal cover he cay be required to pay
foreign impot duty s this regulatory authorization was discussed.
(43) Transportation Allowance
Subject will to taking his personal car and reported ba viil be
authorised a Transportation Allowance tot yet deterated by Division.
The Allowance is to be paid monthly by Headquarte.s.
(51) Temporary Lodging Allowance
Subject was advised be would be entitled to the allowance and he
vas briefed as to its provisions as outlined in the standardized
Regulatione.
(53) Permanent Perecoal Quarters
Subject vos advised that his quarters yould be adattatered in ac-
cordance with FR 45-100D, and then the provisions of this degulation
vere explained to hiu. However, Division Bar offt er tatenda to
review this point for possible contrast samendunt in providing a
quarters allovan e at saxisun Standardized rate si to be non-
gecountable.
SECRET
Exchhote:
Reclasti

14-00000
100000
(60) Leave
1
(618) Subject was inforced of his leave batences as of 3 July 1965:
A/L 37 hours and S/L 633 hours.
(63) Leave Benefite
Subjent was informed of accruals, use, and carry-over for conual
(360 heure) and stek leave while overseas. Also, bu was informed
Headquarters forva de leave belances to the field annually.
(71) Insurance
الا
Subject was info.wed that costs (nurred for insurance protection
of baggage, effects, ar and their shipment are considered personal
and are not roludurscatic by KUBAак.
(74) Edu otion and Educational Travel Allowances
These regulatory provisions were dis.ussed as the ages of Suoject's
children indicate his clligibility. All offista. employees are re-
quired to sond children to U. S. Military school, Subject's allovonces
will be equal to that outhorized for other WE non-offietal personnel
10 arca..
(81) Operational Expenses
Eubject was briefed in general toros egarding advances, control,
safekoeping, accounting, receipts, and other supporting author
tative documentation.
:
(82) Operational Entertainment
A thorough briefing was given Subject regarding this topte i
accordance with current regulations.
(84) Other Operational Considerations
III. Taxes
-
An operational back acount is being opened through the Monetary
Divieton to house an operational advance amount yet undeterained.
Subject vas advised not to co-aingle persona. funds with operational
funds. Subject will submit his first accounting upon occupying
permanent qus:ters and initially quartely thereafter. Fics this
account TLA and Educational allowance paysento vil. be rade and
reported.
Subject was advised be should file overtly only. Subject's 6-2 is to be
forwarded by pouch and his tax retun is to be returned by pou'd for motiing
to U. S.
SECRET
92P1
danceresing 205
Ceclassicala

14-00000
IV. Banking Arrangements
SCORET
A. Sutjet has provided Headquarters with his back account for use as his
stateside allottec.
B. An operational bank account is to be established.
Distribution:
Orig. and 1 CCB
1
C&L
1
Registry
1
Payroll
1
- WE/Division
WILLIAM R. CAULFIELD
Chief, Covert Clotno Branch
SECRET
Enote: a ma
beclassicstle:

14-00000
SECRET
8 July 1965
MEMORANDUM FOils Contract Personnel Division, O/P
BUBJECT
: general
specific
Terence S. CRABANAC Supplement
Paragraph Entitled "OFFSET"
1. This office has a question as to the intent of including
paragraph (7.) entitled "OFFSET" es appears in the Contract for
Terence 8. CRABANAC. The paragraph in question reads as follows:
7. OFFSET
Emoluments (including benefite in kind) received
from or through your cover activities are the
property of the U.S. Government. Procedurally,
such emolucents will be offset against amounts
due you under this agreement and are acknowledged
to be payment by the Government hereunder and
for Federal income tax purposes. If cover
emolumenta exceed those due you under thie
contreet, you will dispose of the excess amount
in conformance with Governmental instructions.
2. Subject reportedly is proceeding abroad under the cover of a
retired Foreign Service Officer and in pursuit of his ambitions as a
writer, Subject will receive all his contractual benefits through the
Agency, there is no cover company, so therefore the only apparent
emoluments to be received from or through his cover activities would be
earnings received from articles, stories, or books written by him. Please
inform this office if its interpretation is correct. If not, we would
appreciate your interpretation and reasoning relative to the statezant
"Emoluments received from or through your cover activities are the
property of the U.B. Governcent."
WILLIAM R. CAULFIELD
Chief, Covert Claims Brench
SCORET
Motle
.
11.20
4

14-00000
Mr. Terence S. Crabanac
Dear Mr. Crabanac:
The United States Government, as represented by the Contracting
Officer, hereby contracts with you as a Contract Employee for the use
of your services and the performance of duties of a confidential nature
under the following terms and conditions:
1. Compensation. In full consideration for the use of your services
and the performance of specified confidential duties you will be compen-
sated in an amount calculated at the rate of $19,880 per annum. In addition,
you are herein authorized legislative salary adjustments, within-grade
promotions and, if applicable, a post differential in substantial conformance
with rules and regulations applicable to Government appointed employees.
Payments will be made as requested by you in writing in an approved man-
ner. Taxes will be withheld therefrom and submitted by this organisation.
2. Allowances. You will be entitled to: (a) Living quarters allow-
ances in conformance with regulations of this organization applicable to
its appointed personnel. In the event you are furnished quarters by the
Government you will not be entitled to the living quarters allowances herein
indicated.
(b) Cost-of-living allowances
in conformance with applicable regulations of this organization including,
but not limited to, a post allowance, a transfer allowance and a home ser-
vice transfer allowance.
3. Travel. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for travel
and transportation expenses for you, your dependents, your househo!!
effects and your personal automobile to and from your permanent post
of assignment, and for you alone for authorised operational travel. In
addition, you will be entitled to storage of such household and persona!
effects as are not shipped, in conformance with applicable Government
regulations. You may be entitled to per diem in lieu of subsistence in
the course of all travel performed hereunder and, when authorized, for
you alone while on temporary duty away from your permanent post of
assignment. All travel, transportation and per diem provided for under
this paragraph must be properly authorized, and expenses incurred here-
under are subject to payment and accounting in compliance with applicable
Government regulations.
4. Operational Expenses. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds
for necessary operational expenses including, but not limited to, entertain-
ment and the purchase of information, as specifically approved by the Gov-
ernment. Such funds will be subject to payment and accounting in commpli-
ance with applicable Government regulations.
5. Repayment. It is recognised that your failure to account for or
refund any monies advanced you hereunder shall entitle the Government to
withhold the total amount of such indebtedness or any portion thereof from
any monies due you under the terms of this contract in such manner as it
deems appropriate.

14-00000
6. Benefits. (a) You will be entitled to death and disabilit, benefits
equal to those authorized under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act,
as amended. Clairns by you, your heirs, or legal representatives under
this paragraph will be processed by this organization in accordance with its
procedures in such manner as not to impair security.
(