2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

6153
AM12
SECRET

FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF
SAS O
ROUTINE

DC, C/DCI, DOP, ADOP, CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, FI, EE,
NE 6, 6, WHA
(POUCH FRAN 9, BONN 5, BRLN 5,
ATHE 6, ALL THE 3
2
MULTI-ADDRESSEE CABLE
65367

PERUMEN ZRPRIMA
LOND PARI BRUS HAGU COPE STOC OSLO MADR
SOLE

CABLE SEC: IPLS POUCH CABLE TO FOLLOWING:) (WRENCH POUCH)

FRAN FROB BORN HAMB BRUN MUNI VIEN ATHE
BERN GNVA CALE BEIR TEHE TELA RIOD SAOP
MRID SAGO MONT BUEN CARA LAPA LIMA
QUIT QUAT SHTO NELS HAVE
BELS LISB MILA VLEO TRIE

RELCABINGOFFICEB
COORDINATING OFFictea
AUTHENTICATING
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
ROUTING
2
22 Nov 63 17 832
SIG CEN
DEFERRED
ROUTINE
MULTI-ADDRESSEE CABLE INFO
CITE DIR
85387
RBRUMEN ZRPRIMA
REF DIR 22218
2
RECENTLY CONCLUDED HOS REVIEW OF ZRPRIMA PROGRAM SEOUS
W
THAT KUBARI EFFORTS HAVE NOT ACHIEVED ANY SIGNIFICANT RESULTS AND
CONTINUATION OF PROGRAM AS SUCH NO LONGER WARRANTED MAIN REASON
2
FOR KUBARK FAILURE IS THAT CUBAN TECHNICIAN RECRUITING PROGRA
HAS BEEN HISERABLE FAILURE WHEN MEASURED AGAINST/ORIGINAL
OBJECTIVE OF 2000 TECHS FROM WESTERN EUROPE ALONE THOUGH OUR
FIGURES NOT COMPLETE, WE ESTIMATE PROBABLY LESS THAN FIFTY
CANDIDATES HAVE RECEIVED CONTRACT APPROVAL AND WE ABLE CONFIRH
ABOUT TEN WHO HAVE ACTUALLY MADE IT TO THE ISLAND
:
יילר
KUBARIK
2 CUBAN FAILURE TO RECRUIT IN SIGNIFICANT NUMBERS APPEARS
DUE LARGELY TO RELUCTANCE FOREIGN MINISTRY AND FOREIGN SERVICE
OFFICERS PURSUE TECH RECRUITING MISSION AGGRESSIVELY, LUREAUCRATIC
INCOMPETENCE IN HAVANA, FEAR OF INFILTRATION OF HOSTILE AGENTS

ELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING, OFFICERS
SECRET
downgrading and
Oretain attige
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
CONT
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
Capy. No.
ROUTINE
INFO

PAGE THO

INFO
CITE DIR 85387
AND PROBABLE LOSS OF INTER ST IN THE PROGRAM ON PART OF CASTRO
HIMSELF. THESE FACTORS WHICH EMERGE FROM OUR STUDY OF THE CUBAN
PERFORMANCE ACCOUNT FOR LACK OF RESPONSE FROM EMBASSIES TO
APPLICATIONS, LABU DELAY IN GETTING CORD BACK FROM HAVANA AND
SMALL NUMBER OF TECHS ULTIMATELY HIRED. LONG TIME LAG BETWEEN
INITIAL APPLICATION AND ULTINATE APPRO

SIX TO HIME MONTHS, HAS COST, CUBANS NUBBER OF
INITIALLY EAGER BUT SUBSEQUENTLY LOST INTEREST OR TOOK OTHER
JOBS
3. IN FACE OF FOREGOING WE DO NOT BELIEVE IT WORTHWHILE
TO CONTINUE INTENSIVE SEARCH FOR ZRPRIMA CANDIDATES FOR INSERTION
WISH STRESS
INTO CUBAN HIRING CHANNEL. /STATIONS WITH ACTIVE LEADS SHOULD STAY
WITH THEM IN THE HOPE THEY MAY STILL BE HIRED, BUT CEASE EFFORTS
TO GENERATE LEADS FROM SCRATCH. ON OTHER HAND, THERE ARE FAIR
MUMBER NON BLOC TECHS IN CUBA AND IT LIKELY CUBANS WILL CONTINUE
TO RIVE NEEC ON LIMITED SELECTIVE BASIS AS THEY DID PRIOR
TO GRPRIMA PROGRAM. STATIONS THEREFORE ALE UDARD 10
ALERT FOR SECH OPPORTUNITIES AND TO REPLOIT THEM IN SAME HANNER
ALL OTHER OPPORTUNITIES TO PLACE RESIDENT AGENTS IN CUBA,
RELEASING
F
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SROUP I
downgracing
bellassica
LOFT...
MENTICATING
OTFIGER
REPRODUCTION BTC
KT
SUING OFFICE BRON
Om Na
PAGE THREE
INFO
3.
ROUTINE
CITE DIR
85387
IN THIS CONNECTION WE NOTE THAT MOST PERUMEN OFFICIALS RESPONSIBLE
FOR RECRUITING TECHS TEND TO RELY HEAVILY ON LOCAL CP STAMP OF
APPROVAL OR OTHER STRONG INDICATION THAT CANDIDATE IS POLITICALLY
ACCEPTACLE LACKING THIS THEY MAY EITHER IGNORE THE APPLICATION
CEREJECT IT.
RESPONSE OF MOST STATIONS IN IMPLEMENTING ZRPRIMA HAS
BEEN HOST GRATIFYING. WE PROVIDED CUBANS WITH GOOD NUUBER HIGHLY
QUALIFIED ENGINEERS AND TECENICIANS WHICH THEY FOR REASONS CITED
2
UNABLE OR UNFILLING TO ACCEPT KUBARK HAS MADE A RESPECTABLE
KFFORT TO EXPLOIT THIS OPPORTUNITY AND FACT THAT WE HAVE NOT
ACHIEVED SIGNIFICANT RESULTS IS BARELT KAFLECTION CUBAN CONFUSION
AND INEPTITUDE WITH RESULTANT FAILURE ACHIEVE THEIR OWN GOALS
5 DISCONTINUE USE ZRPRIMA SLUG AND 200-120-47
END OF MESSAGE
CIS COMMENT: Cable pre-deter CS Des. Copy may be seen in GIA
reference file.
RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICГИЯ
BECRET
ane, papa
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
AUTHENTICATINO
OFFICER
Copy No.
PAGE FOUR

INFO
FOUR
ROUTINE
CITE
35387
