# SECRET

104-10121-10366 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

**REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION**
(Always handcarry 1 copy of this form)

TO: CI/Operational Approval and Support Division

[X] Security Support Division/Office of Security

SUBJECT: Robert A. Maheu
(True name)
CRYPTONYM, PSEUDONYM, AKA OR ALIASES

DATE: 7 October 1959

FROM: NE/2/Jordan
1205 I x3203

PROJECT:

CI/OA FILE NO.

RI 201 FILE NO.

SO FILE NO.

**TYPE ACTION REQUESTED**

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL
[X] COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL
COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL FOR LIAISON WITH U.S. OFFICIALS

PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
COVERT NAME CHECK
SPECIAL INQUIRY (SO field investigation)

**USE OF INDIVIDUAL OR ACTION REQUESTED**

SPECIFIC AREA OF USE:
U.S. and Jordan

FULL DETAILS OF USE:
May be employed by the King of Jordan to handle Jordanian public relations in the U. S.

**INVESTIGATIVE COVER**

IS OR WILL SUBJECT BE AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM? [X] YES NO
IS OR WILL SUBJECT BE AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HIM? [X] YES NO

INDICATE SPECIAL LIMITATIONS OR COVERAGE DESIRED IN THE SECURITY OFFICE INVESTIGATION:
Per discussion with Mr. J. O'Connell, sufficient Security Office investigation has already taken place.

IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA, EXPLAIN FULLY:

PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS: Available at OS

PRQ 1. OR EQUIVALENT, IN (2) COPIES ATTACHED
PRQ 11. OR EQUIVALENT. IN (1) COPY ATTACHED

PRO II WILL BE FORWARDED
GREEN LIST ATTACHED. NO:

**FIELD TRACES**

NO RECORD
DEROGATORY INFORMATION ATTACHED, WITH EVALUATION
WILL BE FORWARDED

NO INFORMATION OF VALUE
[X] NOT INITIATED (Explanation) has not been in area

RI TRACES (Derogatory Information and Evaluation Attached)

NO RECORD [X] NON-DEROGATORY DEROGATORY

DIVISION TRACES (Derogatory Information and Evaluation Attached)
NO RECORD
RECORD [X] NON-DEROGATORY DEROGATORY

SIGNATURE OF CASE OFFICER:
James E. Burkart

EXTENSION: 3203

SIGNATURE OF BRANCH CHIEF:
William R. Freeman

SECRET
