104-10181-10099
5/2017
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Full Kesuits
National Archives and Records Administration

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Viewing/Ordering Information

Back to Brief Results Back to Search
Exit JFK
Hits 1-1 of 1

Not in Box
Hit 1 of 1

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : CIA
RECORD NUMBER: 104-10181-10099
RECORDS SERIES: JFK
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: [No From]
TO: [No To]
TITLE: [RESTRICTED]
DATE: 01/01/0000
PAGES: 38
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER - TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
SUBJECTS: UNIT ID
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: POSTPONED IN FULL
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/21/1998
COMMENTS: JFK64-17 F18 1998.03.21.10:31:39:436107 38 WHITE
BANDED PAGES.

Audit history for this Record Identification Form
Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results Back to Search Exit JFK
National Archives and Records Administration
webmaster@nara.gov

1/1

٤٠٢٠
G.COM:of
C//CCO/OPS
1325
1914770

NATION
SECRET GEX TURN TO
PANGRENA HNANG.14 TALT
SECRET 10.22 2321/70 CITE DIRECTOR
PRIORITY DO BASE LOS ANGELES INFO ROUTINE WH/MIAMID 35471
DRID
TYPIC AMAUTO
1. PLS DETERMIGE ASAP FIFAGICAL DESCRIPTION AND
COCUPATION OF MANUEL (VIGOS) PIREZ, 935 BRACON AVENUE,
APARTMENT 10, 103 ANGELES, APPARENTLY NO TELEPHONE. VIGOS
WENT LOS ANGELES FROM HLAMI II EARLY MARCH.

I
B
2. FILE: 201-735296.

END OF MESSAGE
FILE RID
CTHED
FI
WI CONTENT: Based on Madrid 1131 (IN 035999) request that
access agent of Wamical be given much information about Subject
as possible for cake of approach to Cuben target in Madrid.

משקלהJCGULIK
C/DO/I/81 ACTEUR/IB/s
C/WAD/
CS COPY
CLAFICER
JAMES E. FLANNERY
C/WH/COC
201-235296
19 may 70
AUTHENTICATING
(すいこりR
!
COPY NO
ר
5
2
1

BLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
CON/UNIT NOTIFIES
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COFIES 5/
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY
SECRET
ひたひこで
5
(When Fille In
CORRALING AND
2
6
VECLASSISK
3
7
ANCE COPY
SLOTTED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
د
8
INDEX:
Yes110
CLASSIFY TO C3 FILE NO.
X-REF TO CS FILE NO.
EM BY 41
FILE RID
RETURN TO
BRANCH
FILE, VR RIVAN EUR 6.
TION UNIT
WH8
TION NO.
SHA
(RIVAN, EUR 6, DDP, ADDP, 4, Ciloes, CiloA, FIZ
19 MAYIN085999
MADR
SECRET 191224Z MAY 70 CITE MADRID/1131
DIRECTOR, WH/MIAMI
TYPIC AMAUTO
REF: DIRECTOR 233355
1. WE BELIEVE THAT CHANCE ENCOUNTER WITH AMAUTO-1
ALONE TOO DIFFICULT TO ARRANGE SINCE AMAUTO-1 IS
FREQUENTLY IN COMPANY SOMEONE FROM HIS STAFF OR HAVING
LUNCH WITH SPANISH OFFICIALS OR BUSINESSMENT. MOREOVER,
ENCOUNTER UNDER THIS SITUATION, WE FEEL, WOULD NOT PERMIT
RELAXED EXCHANGE BETWEEN SAMKO AND AMAUTO-I. WE WOULD
LIKE TO SUGGEST FOLLOWING ALTERNATIVE:
A. ON ARRIVAL SPAIN VIA AERONAVES DE MEXICO
FLIGHT 450 LEAVING MIAMI FRIDAY SAMKO WOULD GO DIRECTLY
AN
AB
BX
DASHED
TO HOTEL OF STATION SELECTION. STATION OFFICER WILL ALSO WH/C/OF
OCCUPY HOTEL IN ALIAS AND INITIAL CONTACT WITH SAMKO WILL
BE MADE IN HOTEL. (INCIDENTALLY, BELIEVE NO NEED
PA CHANKIS ACCOMPANY SAMKO TO MADRID.)
B. EARLY SUNDAY AFTERNOON SAMKO WOULD GO DIRECTLY
TU AMAUTO-1'S PRIVATE RESIDENCE. HIS EXCUSE WILL BE
THAT HE WOULD HAVE GONE TO EMBASSY BUT WAS CERTAIN THAT
LS COPY
SECRET
19 May 70
201--735296

CARLE SE PEMARA
TUTAL COMES
POUTING AND CONTIALS NR r
SECRET

РАС: 2 MAR 113: SECRET
EMBASSY WOULD BE CLOSEL. IN ADDITION, SINCE SAMKO
SCHEDULED TOUR OF MADRID AND SUBURBS LEAVING EARLY
FO CAY MORNING DECIDFO MAKE EFFORT CONTACT AMAUTC-1
AT HOME RATHER THAN POSSIBLY MISS OPPORTUNITY TO SEE HIM.
(54110 WILL BE INSTRUCTEL TO SIGN UP FOR TOUR OF CITY
RESIDENCE.
CVERTLY. SAMKO WILL HAVE TO
QUESTION FROM AMAUTO-1:
SAMKO'S REPLY WOULD BE
70 LFID AUTHENTICITY TO STORY.) BE PREPARED REPLY TO INEVITABLE
HOW DID YOU FIND MY ADDRESST
THAT HE OSMAINED ADDRESS FROM IBERIA EMPLOYEE AT AIRPORT
110 SEENT CONSIDERABLE TIME TRYING TO LOCATE ANAHTO-1
CADDRESS APPEARS IN DIP LIST AVAILABLE
SAMKO WOULD FURTHER EXPI AIN, IF NECESSARY,
THAT HE DID NOT KNOW HOW EXPLOYEE GOT ADDRESS, BUT KNOWS
SHE MADE NUMBER OF TELEPHONE CALLS. WE CANNOT PREDICT
AMAUT 0-1'S REACTION TO THIS DIRECT APPROACH. HE MIGHI
QLAIM PRESS OF BUSINESS OR OTHER COMMITMENTS THEREBY
PEFUSING SEE SAMKO IN FOME BUT MIGHT SUGGEST THAT SAMKO
VISIT EMBASSY MONDAY MORNI的。 GAM SHOULD BE PREPARED
TO TAY THAT IF THIS CULD NOT EMBARI ASS AMAUTO-1 HE
103D GLADLY CANCEL TOUR 410 60. TO USE STANDARD LINE
SECRET

5774
✔CABLE SECRETARIAT, SSEMINATION
CLASSIFIED MES AGE
JOTA COFIES
ROUTING AND/OR INIT ALS-SEEN BY
FERSO
لم
SECRET
GROUP I
5
(Whe Filled
2
6
२
7
ADVANCE COME
FLOTTED
ODUCTION OF THIS COPY DROH RITED
२
ACTION
ACTION NO.
!
FILE, VA
Z
201
VES
NO
CAS TO CV FILL NO.
時號α τα πιω
FRID
RETURN T
PAGE 3 MADRID 1131SECRET
THAT BECAUSE HE IS AMERICAN HE SHOULD NOT VISIT PBRUMEN
EMBASSY, WOULD, WE FEEL, QUICKLY AROUSE AMAUTO-1'S
SUSPICION. SAM KO'S APPROACH TO AMAUTO-I RESIDENCE CAN
BE MONITORED FROM HOMES OF TWO STAFFERS WHO LIVE WITHIN
EYSHOT OF AMAUTO-I'S RESIDENCE.
C.
AMAUTO-I'S PROBABLE SECOND QUESTION: HOW DID
SAM KO KNOW HE WAS IN MADRID? REQUIRES MORE THOUGHT AND
HELP FROM MIAMI. IDEALLY, SAMKO SHOULD BE ABLE SAY THAT
A MUTUAL FRIEND OF BOTH AMAUTO-1 AND SAMKO WERE TOGETHER
RECENTLY IN MIAMI AND AMAUTO-I'S NAME MENTIONED. SAMKO
ASKED WHAT HAPPENED TO AMAUTO-1 AND FRIEND DISCLOSED THAT
(IN 085476)
AMAUTO-1 NOW "AMBASSADOR" TO SPAIN. (SUBJECT WH/MIAMI 7595
MIGHT BE APPROPRIATE "FRIEND" WHOSE NAME SAMKO MIGHT
USE.
STATION SUGGESTS THAT CONTACT BE MADE WITH SUBJECT
IN LOS ANGLELES TO DETERMINE WHETHER HE KNOWS WHERE
AMAUTO-I IS. ALSO OBTAIN PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION, OCCUPATION
IN LA AND PRIOR JOB IN MIAMI PLUS OTHER NOTABLE
CHARACTERISTICS WHICH COULD BE USED AS FILLER BY SAMKO
TO SHOW THAT POSSIBLE RELATIONSHIP EXISTED BETWEEN
AMAUTO-1'S COUSIN AND SAM KO.) IN ADDITON, SUGGEST
SECRET
101 735 296

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
こいこい
SECRET
(When Filled In)
1
5
2
6
2
7
ACE COPY
STUD
SLOTTED
REPRODUTION THIS CODY PROHIB
ACTION
2
לוי
FILE, VR
BRANCH
PAGE 4 MADRID 1131SECRET
PACHANKIS RE-CONTACT SAM KO TO ASCERTAIN NAMES OF PERSONS
IN UNITED STATES WHO KNEW AMAUTO-I AND FROM WHOM SAMKO
OSTENSIBLY MIGHT HAVE RECEIVED INFORMATION OF AMAUTO-1'S
MADRID ASSIGNMENT.
WEL COME OTHER SUGGESTIONS AS REPLY
TO ABOVE QUESTION.
2. LINE SAMKO WOULD TAKE AFTER FOOT IN DOOR SHOULD
BE THOROUGHLY REHEARSED IN MIAMI BEFORE ARRIVAL MADRID
BECAUSE OF DI- ELEMENTA MIAMI SHOULD
CABLE WHAT SPECIFIC
INSTRUCTIONS ARE GIVEN TO SAMKO SO THAT STATION OFFICER
COMPLETELY AWARE OF HOW SAMKO IS TO CONDUCT HIMSELF.
3.

JUNE DEPARTURE SUGGEST CONTACT ABOVE PERSONS ASAP.
GP-1
+
IN VIEW DESIRE TO INITIATE CONTACT BEFORE AMAUTO-I'S
4.
FILE 201-735296.
SECRET
WILL
SUE UPON 'REQUEST
:
SECRET

CLASSIFICATION
TRANSMI TAL
OF
TDCS INFORMATION REPORT
SARA RENTS
SECRET
When Filled In
ROUTING
masford
067
1- MAY 1970
1 CA 5. CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2. CS/DO.
10 G, FI 6, FI/D, IW, EUR 5 DC/ стри

DATE DEUTHE
16 MAY 1970
CISSEIA NATION
/RF/IB/R3
FARR
WO/FI
1LE/MADR 1
1 WH/MEXI 1
WE RENANG SH/REGL
VALUATION
SPATE
ARMY
NAVY
TDCSDB-315/02487-70
X! ROUTINE
PRECEDENCE
BASED ON (FLD. APT., PROJ.)
JOSM-10026/MADR 1069
(IN 079701)
MADR-1100 (IN 082937)
QUSEQUIN/QUDOZE
Liaison: 65*
PARA 4:
QUKETCH/22
AIR
THANGING INSTRUCTIONS Plate Χίη αεριοριστa space. List elettrical addressens.)
CALL
RECOMMEND EXO
BASIC DOCUMENT NOT
MADE AVAILABLE DCI
RELAY CABLE ATTACHED
SHOW IW
MADRID WH/MIAMI
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
CONTROLLED DISSEM
SEC
->
OTHER
DISSEM ELECTR-CALLY
EXCLUSIVE FOR USIB
USIG PERSONAL ATTN
TO:
(CORRECTION TAPE USED)
ZRWAHOO CABLE SENT XXX AS RELAY
NOT FOR LIAISON
FILE:
PMAUTO-/
& S INTERNAL USE ONLY
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
C/311/COG/RR
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
(When filled in;
COORDINATING OFFICER(S)
E/IB/R
RELEASING OFFICER
Robert H. Riefe
C/WH/R
5-69
1K-2 USE FREVIOUS EDITIONS
COPY NO.
(15-20-44-47)

•
DIRECTORATE OF
PLANS
Intelligence Information Cable
IN-079701
PAGE 1 OF 4 PAGES
STATE/INR DIA NMCC/MC (SECDEF JCS ARMY NAVY AIR) CIA/NMCC NIC NSA SDO ONEXXXXXX
EXC
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionone Laws, Tirla 18. U.S.C. Secs. 773 and 794, the
transmission of revoiation of which in any manner to on unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM
THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE
SECRET
COUNTRY CUBA/SPAIN
DOI
4-6 MAY 1970
SUBJECT
10 18 002 May 70
GROUP I
Kaded but
Sowngrading oγρα
CITE TDCS DB-315/02487-70
DIST 18 MAY 1970
PROTESTS BY CUBAN EMBASSY IN SPAIN OVER ALLEGED ATTACKS ON
CUBAN OFFICIALS
ACQ
SOURCE
5
A
3
2
1
SPAIN, MADRID (EARLY MAY 1970)
AN OFFICIAL SPANISH SERVICE;
SENSITIVE AND USUALLY RELIABLE.
1.
FIELD NO.
OSM 10026
FROM A SOURCE DESCRIBED AS
IN EARLY MAY 1970, THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN MADRID
PREPARED A PROTEST NOTE TO THE SPANISH FOREIGN MINISTRY OVER
AN INCIDENT WHICH OCCURRED AT THE BAKAJAS AIRPORT IN MADRID
BETWEEN CUBAN REFUGEES AND CUBAN OFFICIALS, IN WHICH BLOWS
WERE EXCHANGED. ACCORDING TO MINISTER GUILLERMO RUIZ,
CUBAN CHARGE D'AFFAIRES, THE EMBASSY WILL CHARGE THAT SIX
FUNCTIONARIES AND FOUR DIPLOMATIC COURIERS FROM HAVANA WERE
PHYSICALLY ATTACKED ON 4 MΑΥ ΑΤ ΤΗΣ AIRPORT BY DISAFFECTED
CUBANS, ALL RESIDENTS OF SPAIN. THE NOTE STATED THAT "THIS
COWARDLY AND UNJUSTIFIABLE AGGRESSION" ENDANGERED DIPLOMATIC
SECRET
ان
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM
Gium controls)
5
4
3
2
1

IN-079701
TDCSDB-315/02487-70
PAGE 2 OF 4 PAGES
SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM
DOCUMENTS AND COULD NOT BE CONSIDERED AN ISOLATED ACT BUT THE
CONSEQUENCE OF REPEATED PROVOCATIONS AT BARAJAS,
SPANISH
AUTHORITIES WERE ASKED TO PREVENT A REPETITION OF THESE
INCIDENTS.
2.
(FIELD COMMENT: ACCORDING TO ANOTHER UNTESTED SOURCE
WHO WAS AN EYEWITNESS TO THE 4 MAY INCIDENT, THE CROWD INCLUDED
23 MEMBERS OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY AND A NUMBER OF CUBAN EXPATRIATES
MEETING AN IBERIA FLIGHT FROM HAVANA WHICH WAS CARRYING 75
CUBAN OFFICIALS AND 30 CUBAN REFUGEES.
MAXIMO
TORRES,
FORMER MAYOR OF SANTIAGO DE CUBA AND A MAN OF OVER 60 YEARS OF
AGE, ADDRESSED ONE OF THE ARRIVING CUBAN OFFICIALS, MISTAKING
HIM FOR A REFUGEE. THE OFFICIAL REBUFFED HIM RUDELY AND A
GENERAL ARGUMENT ENSUED AND BLOWS WERE EXCHANGED. HORACIO
FUENTES MARTINEZ, FIRST SECRETARY OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY,
JUMPED FROM A NEARBY CAR AND PISTOL-WHIPPED ONE OF THE REFUGEES.
AFTER THE POLICE ARRIVED, TORRES AND HIS WIFE NEEDED MEDICAL
ATTENTION.)
3. ON 6 MAY, ROBERTO FRANCO OLIVA, CUBAN CONSUL
IN MADRID, COMPLAINED TO A SPANISH POLICE INSPECTOR CONCERNING
THE INCIDENT AT THE AIRPORT AS FOLLOWS:
A.
THE SCENE AT THE AIRPORT HAD BEEN PREPARED DY THE
C.S. CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) AND 'COUNTERREVOLUTIONARIES."
THE INSPECTOR REPLIED TO THIS THAT SPANISH AUTHORITIES WERE
SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM

12-しここよ
TDCSDB-315/02487-70
PAGE 3 OF 4 PAGES
SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM
INVESTIGATING AND WOULD GIVE CUBAN OFFICIALS THE PROTECTION IN
SPAIN WHICH THEY SHOULD HAVE. HE SAID THAT THREE CUBAN REFUGEES
HAD BEEN ARRESTED AND WOULD BE DEPORTED TO FRANCE, FOR THEIR
PART, THE REFUGEES HAD SAID THAT HORACIO FUENTES HAD PULLED
OUT A GUN DURING THE FIGHT, A CHARGE WHICH FRANCO DENIED AT
LENGTH.
B. MANY OTHER ATTACKS HAVE BEEN SUFFERED BY CUBAN
OFFICIALS AT THE AIRPORT AND DAMAGE DONE TO THEIR PARKED CARS,
c. WHEN CUBAN SEAMEN ARE ARRESTED BY THE SPANISH
POLICE IN THE CANARY ISLANDS THEY ARE INTERROGATED SEPARATELY
IN THE POLICE STATION BY AN AGENT OF THE CIA WHO IS A CUBAN
"GUSANO" (TURNCOAT).
D. ALTHOUGH THERE ARE SPANISH REPUBLICANS AND
SPANISH COMMUNISTS IN CUBA, THE SPANISH EMBASSY IN HAVANA IS
NEVER MOLESTED.
Ε. FRANCO IS PREPARED TO ADVISE CUBAN PASSENGERS
COMING TO SPAIN TO CARRY RAZORS FOR SELF DEFENSE. CUBAN OFFI-
CIALS, PARTICULARLY THOSE WHO GO TO THE AIRPORT, SHOULD APPLY
FOR LICENSES TO CARRY PISTOLS,
4.
(FIELD COMMENT: ACCORDING TO AN OFFICIAL SPANISH
SERVICE, CUBAN DIPLOMATS MAY APPLY FOR GUN PERMITS TO THE
SPANISH FOREIGN MINISTRY AND WOULD PROBABLY RECEIVE PERMISSION.
NON-DIPLOMATIC CUBANS MUST APPLY TO THE DIRECTORATE GENERA OF
SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM

TDCSD3-315/02487-70
PAGE 4 OF 4 PAGES
SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEE/CONTROLLED DISSE
INTERNI SECURITY (DGS) BUT WOULD PROBABLY NOT RECEIVE
PERMISSION. TOCSDB-315/01741-70 RLPORTED THAT AS OF 8 APRIL
ALL CUBAN COMMERCIAL REPRESENTATIVES WERE CARRYING PISTOLS,
AND TILLT SOURCES OF KNOWN RELIABILITY HAVE NOTED THAT CUBAN
DIPLOMATS ABROAD HAVE BEEN AUTHORIZED BY THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT
TO CARRY A SMALL HAND WEAPON.)
3.
FIELD DISSEM: STATE.
SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM

11
C
WHE
€ 439
C
ELLERIAN a alope fiz
CUORET 1-1026 FAY 72 LITE WHA161115 (REDECKER ACTING)
DLARSTOR INFO MADRID
WMIM 10000170
C
EXPIC ATAUTO
C
(
C
WALL (4081546, (4071546)
MANGAL CODE, SOPANTED
AI CALY MARCH POR LOS ANGELES PREGOST ADDRESS
16, 17 ALLEJ DO15, 10
FILEPHOIZ. ALOVE 7604 PELATIVE OF VIGCO IN MIAMI,
CHES (CA: CIA) DIGA100, WIG DOES NOT KNOW ANAUTO-1.
2.
(..
AS ICJALNO 14 AZ 3, ACE DID NOT PREPARE
CU JARY CE ACASTC-1 PRO VIGOJ FOLEFING, DUE TO LACK
OF 1970. ADOVAS YOUMASECO P. CASE AQS WISHES TO
DHTD
14/1/1
CCUS.
11
3.
FILE: Zul-peu, GP-1
SECRE
{
CS COPY
18 may 70
201-735296

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFTED
>
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES
SECRET:
When Filled in)
CROUP
EXCLOO PROSE ACTOMATIC
DOEMOR ADING AD
DECLASSIFICATION
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
SLOTTED
1X:
YES
NO
ROU TING AND/OR INITIALE-OLEN
5
2
6
3
7
4
8
BY:
AT:
30
DISSEM BY
产爽
ACTION UNIT
WAS
-240
ACTION NO.
298
CLASSIFY TO CS FILE NO.
X-REF TO CS FILE NO.
FILE RID
RETURN TO
BRANCH
FILE, VR RIVAN EURO Fiz cilops di Cilicz
DDP ADOP CSDO
SECRET 151724Z MAY 70 CITE WH/MIAMI 7570 (NEBECKER ACTING)
DIRECTOR, MADRID
WmIm 15 MAY 11. 084149
d
TYPIC AM AUTO
REFS: A. DIRECTOR 033355
B. UFAA-1978
1. IN MEETING WITH SAMKO ON 14 MAY, PACHANKIS MENTIONED
POSSIBLE TRIP TO MADRID AS TOURIST TO HOLD "CHANCE MEETING
WITH AMAUTO/1. SMAKO VERY ENTHUSED, FLATTERED HIS GOVERNMENT
NEEDED HIM, AND IN POSITIVE FRAME OF MIND FOR OPERATION.
NO FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS MADE (EXPECT WE WOULD PAY EXPENSES
ON TRIP) AND HE APPEARS TO BE MOTIVATED TO HELP COUNTRY
AND OLD FRIEND. AT OUR REQUEST, SAMKO HAS APPLIED FOR
NEW PASSPORT. INCIDENTALLY, HIS WIFE PASSED AWAY ON
6 NOV EM BER 1969.
2. WE ARE NOW IN POSITION TO DISPATCH SAMKO. PLS
ADVISE WHEN HE IS NEEDED ON AMAUTO/1 APPROACH.
3. FILE: 201-735296. GP-1
SECRET
OK, let's go. Do you think
enough caution,
'chauce," and
" non political etc. bove already bers
cod
carletter into this of?
SECRET
Not yet
Ama 70-1

GE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
CABLE SECRETARIAT DI SEN NATION
CLASSIFF
TOTAL COPIES
4
POUTING AND OR INITIALS SEEN
SECRET
WH8
9271
RIJAN, Jon. F12, EURG
SECRET 121902Z RAY 72 CITE WH/MIAMI/15 15 (NEJE CKER ACT ING)
DIRECTOR, GADRID
TYPIC AMAUTO
REF: DIRECTOR 030893
1. MANUEL (VIGOS) PEREZ OF PARA 3 REF IS COUSING
OF AMAUTO-1. HE WAS GIVEN CI DEBRIEFING BY AMOTIN-122
ON 24 FEBRUARY. VIGOS HAJ NOT SEEN AMAUTO-I SINCE
1953, HAS BEEN RECEIVING PSYCHIATRIC TREATMENT FOR
SEVERAL YEARS, AND IS HOMOSEXUAL. DUE TO LACK OF INFO
FROM VIGOS, ANOTS DID NOT PREPARE REPORT ON AMAUTO-1.
2. WILL HAVE PACHANKIS INTERVIEW FOR ANY POSSIBLE
INFO MISSED BY AMOTS AND ADVISE.
3. FILE: 201-735296. GP-1
SECRET
CIECC
μ
A:
ABX
COPY
B
DES NFD
WH/C/OP
201-235296

CHIC
UNIT
EXT.
DATL:
AICHARD WHEELER:mdu
WH/COG/OPS
R1819/7144
11 MAY 1970
CABLE SECRETARIAY DISSEMINATION
BY
35/21
wit's
PER
FILE, VR.
TO
Γ
INDEX
FOR
SECRET
4
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS
5
G
NO INDEX
RETURN TO
BRANCH
FILE RID
FILE IN CS FILE NO.
BYON, EURL, DOP ADDS, CANA, CL, cpc 2
CHOPS ELZ
(fate and time fire)
(elite)
reference numbe
CITE DIRECTOR
12 21 06 MAY 20
INFO MADRID
033355
(clas ubication)
SECRET
WH/MIAMI
TYPIC AMAUTO
REFS:
A.
DIRECTOR 030893
B.
UFAA-1978
(ca)
1. VIEW REF D, HOS SANGUINE ABOUT POSSIBILITIES OF "CHANCE"
APPROACH BY SAMKO TO AMAUTO-1. AS REASONABLY WELL OFF RETIRED
PERSON, SANKO COULD NATURALLY CO TO MADRID AS TOURIST. HOS WONDERS
WHETHER THIS WOULD HOLD BATER UNLESS WIFE ACCOMPANIED HIM. REQUEST
MIAMI INVESTIGATE THIS POINT.
2.

AUW
ADX
APPROACH BY SANKO WOULD ALMOST CERTAINLY NOT LEAD TO
RECRUITMENT, BUT WOULD OFFER PERSONAL READING OF AMAUTO-1 BASED
ON WHAT APPEARS TO BE WARM ENTREE PROVIDED BY FONDLY-REMEMBERED IN
IF APPROPRIATE, SAMKO COULD PROVIDE LINK ΤΟ
PAST ASSOCIATION,
"OTHER WORLD" IN CASE AMAUTO-1 EVER NEEDED HELP.
PS
BX
LATTER SCHEDU NED
TRAVEL HAVANA IN JUNE 70 AND RETURN MADRID PRIOR POSTING CUBA.
JUDGING FROM AMBEDEW-1 AND ANDELAY-1 CASES, BRIEF RETURN TO CUBA
MIGHT PROVE TURNING POINT IN ANY DECISION TO DEFECT.
FI
THEREFORE,
H
N ANY MEETING WITH SAMO SOULD BE PRIOR JUNEDEPARTURE,
5
3
2
1
3.
IN EVENT POSSIBLE SAMKO TRAVEL TO MADRID, WE WOULD NEED
CONTINUED...
RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
201-735296
CROUP T
Farumatic
12 may 10
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
SECRET
REPPODUCION BY ONES BAN HILL PASUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
COPY NO.

ORIGE
UNIT:
EXT
DATE
11 30 AM 70
MAK 2011
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
BY
CONFI
PER
MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
2
3
914135 PM 7
NO INDEX
INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO
Το Γ
3
2
1
INFO
FILE, VR,
(classification)
SECRET
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY
5
6
7
A
RETURN TO
BRANCH
FILE RID
RECETVED
RID/EDI
(elite)
(pica)
(date and time filed)
(reference number)
CITE DIRECTOR
70333537
PAGE TWO
LIST OF PLACES FREQUENTED BY AMAUTO-1 WHERE SAMKO WOULD HAVE CHANCE
"BUMP INTO" HIM. IF MADRID HAS OTHER IDEAS, WELCOME ALTERNATIVE
SCENARIO.
4.
FILE: 201-735296.
END OF MESSAGE
WH/COMMENT:
Ref A said Hqs willing consider use of SAMKO to approach
AMAUTO-1. Ref B gave results of Miami's contacts with
SAMKO.
wr
Mull
WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD
RELEASING OFFICER
EUR/IB
GORDONATI OFICERS
SECRET
JAMES E. FLANNERY
FLANNERY
C/WH/COG
GROUP I
Excluded from automatic
compr.ding and
dertassilication
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
COPY NO
5
3
2

FORM 3020
10
USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONG
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
ECHION UNIT NOTFILO
ADVANCE COPY
13SUCO
LOTTEOy
BY:
AT:
Z
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
24
SECRET BADUP I
(Winch Filfodilak
REPRODUCTION OF THE COPOB
INDEX:
MAY 1200 16 PR 10
CLASSIFY TO E FILE NON COPY
X-REF TO CS FILE NO
FILE RIO
ITED
2
I
POUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN
5
6
L
1
DISJEM BY
20
PER
ACTION UNIT
WH8
240
ACTION NO.
927
RETURN TO
Boule to the all
FILE, VR
E/AN, CI/OA. F12 EUR G
Showing board
SECRET 12 19027 MAY 70 CITE WH/MIAMI 75 15 (NEBECKER ACT ING)
DIRECTOR, MADRID
TYPIC AMAUTO
REF: DIRECTOR 030893
12. COLECC
μ
1. MANUEL (VIGOS) PEREZ OF PARA 3 REF IS COUSING
OF AMAUTO-1. HE WAS GIVEN CI DEBRIEFING BY AMOTIN-122
ON 24 FEBRUARY. VIGOS HAS NOT SEEN AMAUTO-1 SINCE
1963, HAS BEEN RECEIVING PSYCHIATRIC TREATMENT FOR
SEVERAL YEARS, AND IS HOMOSEXUAL. DUE TO LACK OF INFO
FROM VIGOS, AMOIS DID NOT PREPARE REPORT ON AMAUTO-1.
2. WILL HAVE PACHANKIS INTERVIEW FOR ANY POSSIBLE
INFO MISSED BY AMOTS AND ADVISE.
3. FILE: 201-735296. GP-1
SECRET
FILE:
Ampu To

COMPLETED BY
CABLE SECRETARIAT
MAY 18 3 40 PH 70
LACTION COPY
WHS LI Filzy Vi
439
(1)
file
EULGERIAN C. alops. Fiz.-
SECRET 161022 MAY 75 CITE WH/MIAMI 7555 (REDECKER ACTING)
DIRECTOR INFO MADRID
TYPIC AMAUTO
REF
1.
A
DIRECTOR 032693
57015 (4081546, (4081546)
10005470
A MUTO-1/COUSIN, JAYOIL (VI0GS) PEARE, LEPARTED
MIAMI EARLY MASCH FOR LOS AMELES. PRESENT ADDRESS
15 335 BRACON AVE., APT 16, LOST ANGELES 94215, NO
TELEPHONE. ABOVE FROM RELATIVE OF VIGOS IN GIAMI,
MERCEDES (GALICIA) DOBARROS, WHO DOES NOT KNOW AMAUTO-1.
2.
AS INDICATED IN REF 3, AMOTS DID NOT PREPARE
SUMMARY ON ACAUTO-1 FROM VIGOS DESRIEFING, DUE TO LACK
OF INFC. ABOVE ADDRESS FORWARDED IN CASE HQS WISHES TO
PURSUE.
3.
FILE: 261-755295. GP-1
View Adck
rfat you think?
Ausw. no whinest
AMAU10-1
SECRET

SECRET
(When Falled In)
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE
W
SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT
S. ANALYST
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
2.
R FILE NO.
3
DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE
7- SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO.
9. EVALUATION
6. DATE PROCESSED
10. DISSEMINATED IN
11. DATE
DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE
13. TRANSFERRED TO
RI FILE NO.
PERTINENT INFORMATION
RUIZ, GUILLERMO
201-735256
SEX M DCB ?
201-814891
MADR-01054
08 MAY 70
CIT CUBA
OCC ?
: TRAVELING HAVANA MID-JUNE FOR A MEETING
OF AMBASSADORS
UFAOIR
R 7005190007

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
FORM
957
867 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
SECRET
FILE IN 201-735396
(7-46)

Predec
FA
EDITIO
1
ROUTING AND CO INITIALS S
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
CLASSIFIED MM 5510
TOTAL COPIES 24
SECRET
(Wren Falted in)
ADVANCED Com
Π
1
2
3
HAY 8 10 48 10
CLANIFY TO CA FILE
BY:
AT
ACTIGE COPY
XHEF TO CS FILE NO
OIRSEM DY
2
FILE R
RETUPY TO
BRANCH
ACTION LT
WH 8
ACTION RO
18 FILE, VA RI/AN, EURG, es, cl/ors, cllicz, FL2
0587

SECRET Ø81046Z MAY 70 CITE MADRID 1054
DIRECTOR INFO WH/MIANI ROME
TYPIC ANMEDIA QUDOZE
یا
1. FROM QUSEQUIN/QUDOZE 6 MAY:
A.
8 HAY INO79059
C
CARLOS ALFARAS, CUBAN AMBASSADOR LEBANON AND
SYRIA, TOLD ANTOLIN (PROBABLY ANTOLIN ALFONSO CASTENEDA),
CUBAN EMBASSY ROME THAT HE CALFARAS) AND WIFYE SCHEDULED FLY
MADRID ROME 9 MAY IBERIA FLIGHT 358. ANTOLIN SAID THAT
SALVADOR VILASECA, AMBASSADOR ITALY, IN CUBA FOR WEEK'S
VACATION; EXPECTED RETURN ROME G MAY ALITALIA 36