14-00000
104-10222-10001 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Leo CHERNE

SECRET SECURITY INFORMATION
SECRET PERSONNEL
OF PERSONNEL
RETURN HEE TO SE US NOS

14-00000
!
SECRET
CASE OFFICER
T. Cobh
TELEPHONE EXTENSION
2056
GENERAL
CONTRACT INFORMATION AND CHICA LIST
Complete all
how lewe
are net arcticable Forward original and one reas for prep.
aration of contrac
SECTION I
1. NAM
2. PRCE
DIVISION
WH/111/Carib
DATE
1 June 58
ALLMENT MOP
Bruce_G. MASTROCOLA
S. PREVIOUS CIA PSIUDONYM OR ALIASES
None
7. SECURITY CLEARANCE (Type and date)
PCA C-11118, 28 May 59
Beadquarters_Support.
9-3500-10-200
LA PRESENTLY ENGAGED, OP HAS BEEN ENGAGED BY CIA OR ITS ALLIED
(11 you, descride and
ACTORITIES IN SOME CAPACITY
incinde multery)
His business firm furnished cover for a CIA agent.
Personal friend and confidant of DOT
CONTRACT IS TO BE BETTER IN STERILE FOAM 1.E.. "U.S.
GOVERNMENT"
D. INDIVIDUAL WILL WORK UNDER "CONTROLLED COLOR REGULAR OFFICE
MOURS ABAY FROM SUBJECT'S HOME AND PERFORMED UNDER THE SUPERVISION OF
A STAFF EMPLOYEE OR STAFF AGENT
SECTION 11
11. CITIZENSHIP
USA
....
PERSONAL DATA
12. IF NOT U.S. CITRO.
RESIDENT ALIEN
CIVIDUAL IS A PERMANENT 19. AGE
46
..
10. PASEO CATEGORY (Contract agent.
cortract employee, etc.)
Contract Agent
24. DATE OF BIRTH (Month, day, year)
8 September 1912
16. CURRENT RESIDENCE (City and state or country)
New York, N.Υ.
15. LEGAL RESIDENCE (City and state or country
New York, Ν.Υ.
17. MARITAL STATUS (Check as appropriate)
SINGLE
MARRICO
4.
18. NUMBER OF DEPENDENTS (Not including indevidoal)
RELATIONSHIPS
wife 1
daughter 1
2
(no others known)
SECTION 11
20. RESERVE
Not Known
23. BRANCH OF SERVICE
SECTION IV
27. BASIC SALARY
ANNULLED
SEPARATED
DIVORCEO
19. INDIVIDUAL IS RELATED TO A STAFF EMPLOYEE, STAFF AGENT OR
AN INDIVIDUAL CURRENTLY WORKING FOR THE AGENCY IN SOME
CAPACITY
YES
RELATIONSHIPI
U.S. MILITARY STATUS
21. VETERAN
Not Known
24. RANK OR GRA
Karaly
22. IF RETIRED. INDICATE CATEGORY (Longevity, coodat disebititz
service disability non-combat)
25. DRAFT ELIGIBLE
26. DRAFT OFERMENT OBTAINED
COMPENSATION
28. POST DIERENTIAL
$50.00 per day
WAE
Natural
YES
NC
(not to exceed $265 per uk.)
today
ALLOWANCES (NORMALLY ERANTED ONLY TO RESIDENTS OF THE UNIT50
SECTION V
31. QUARTERS
NA
32. POST
NA
33. OTHER
ΝΑ
DY CIA
NO
30 FAXRS TO 35 #ITHHELD BY
TATES)
ON
34. COVER (Breakdown, if any)
NA
SECTION VI
35. TYPES
CS
COMESTIC OPERATIONNA
TRAVEL
X FOREIGN OPERATION AL
30. SITH DEPENDENTS
ま
37. HOUSEHOLD EFFECTS TO BE SHIPPED 30., MASONAL YENICLE TO BE HIPPED 39. TRANSPORTER VEHICLE 70 95 USED FOR
3
40. IF WITH DEPENDENTS STATE RELATIONSHIP, CITIZENSHIP. AGE AND DATE OF BIRTH
41. PAYMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY WILL BE IN COMICS WITH
SECTION VII
42. PURCHASE OF INFORMATION
Yos
CIA REGULATICas
43.
ENTERTAI
Yes
OPERATIONAL TRAVEL
COVER POLICIES AND PO६
CPERATIONAL EXPENSES
44. OTHER
operational Expenser
45. PAYMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY WILL BE IN CONFOCE WITH
FORM 40.
こん
キア・クキ
204 REPLACES FORMS 204 42 2011. 1১১ $5 SECRET

14-00000
SECRET
NOTR
CONTRACT INFORMATION AND CHECK LIST
(CONTINUED)
SRP INSTRUCTIONS ON FIRST SHEET.
SECTION 11-
あつかいICEM
T. Cobb
2056
OTHER REはける
48. DENEFITS (See Part II of Confidential Pund Regulations or regulations for
categories of contract personnel. If medical benefits arqueted, are R. 15-230 *
WII/IIL/Carib
1 June 59
honefits applicable to varnos
.*.*.egulations.)
SECTION TY
47.
STATUS
(Chock)
48.
COVER ACT
CULTURAL
X.10
EDUCATIONAL
(Check)
49. IF COVER PAYMENTS ARE CONTEMPLATED, THEY WILL BE EFFECTED 69IMBURSARLE BASIS
NA
SECTION.
OFFSET OF 19COME
COMPLETE
TOURIS
OTHER
30. OFFSET OF INCOME AND OTHER EVOLUMENTS DERIVED FROM COVER ACTIVITIES (If less than total, juntily in seperate ....
attached hereto.)
TOTAL
SECTION
DURATIO
MONTHS
1
......
TERV
EFFECTIVE DATE
5 June 59
33. RENE
…
54. TERMINATION NOTICE (Number of daya)
30
SECTION X11
58. PRIMARY FUNCTION (FI, PT: other)
PP
SECTION X11
59. FORFEITURE OF RETURN TRAVEL FOR RESIGNAT PRIOR TO CONTRACT TERMINATION
87. GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES TO BE PERFOMED
FUNCTION
DUTIES
..
High level contacts with Cuban Government officials for political action purposes
(subsidiary FI-type reporting also expected from Subject).
SECTION 21%
DE.
EXPERIENCE
QUALIFICATIONS
Arminent authority on government, business, taxse, foreign trade.
High-level contacts in Cuban Government.
53. EDUCATION Unknown
(
hack Highest
Lovel Attained,
60. LANGUAGE COUPETENCY
Unknown
Check Aspropriate
Degree Coopstency
LANGUAGE
02. AREA KISちもこよ
Frequent travel into target area.
SECTION.V
63. JOB AND SPEARS PRIOR TO SERVICE FOR CIA
CATE
SPEAK
WRITE
61.
INDIVIDUAL'S
COUNTRY OF ORIGIN
PRIOR EMPLOYMEN
Executive secretary of a research institute (current employment)
Member of International Rescue Committee
SECTION 771
ACDITIONAL INFORMATION
64. ADDITIONAL OF UNUSUAL REQUIREMENTS, JUSTIFICATIONS OR EXPLANATIONS (Use orher side if cocessary)
APPROVAL
DATE
TYPED SAME & SIGNATURE OF DIVISION OFFICER
DATE
R. N. DAHLGREN, C/WH/III
SECRET
Ovra
TYPED NAME: SIGNATURE OF SENIOR STAFF OFFICER
parmesas
P. E. ARNESON, C/WH/Support

14-00000
:
SECRET
:
Hir. Bruce C. Mastrocola
Dear Mr. Mastrocolar
The United States Government, as reproaunted by the Contracting Officer,
hereby contracts with you as an independent contractor for the submission of
certain information and related acrvices of a confidential nature under the
following terms and conditions:
1. Compensation. In full consideration for the submission of such
Information and services you will be paid a fee of $50 for any day or fraction
thereof during which you are utilised under thie agreement, not to exceed
$265 per week. Payments will be made as directed by you in writing in a
manner acceptable to the Governarent. No taxes will be withheld therefrom,
but it will be your responsibility to report such income under existing Federal
Income tax laws and regulations. An appropriate Form 1099 will be furnished
by the Government-in furtherance of its tax reporting requirement.
2. Travel. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for necessary
exponses incurred in connection with such operational travel as may be
directed or authorised by the Government. This may include por diem in llen
Hof subsistence in the course of such travel and while on ton pory
from your domestic porimanent post of assignment. Payment and accounting
for such expenses will be in substantial conformance with applicable Govorn-
mənt regulations.
3. Operational Expensas. You will be advanced or rataibureed funda
for becuecary operational expsuses including, but not limited to, entertain.
ment and the parchase of information, as specifically approved by the Covean-
meat. Sach funde will be subject to accounting in substantial compliance with
Coverament regulations.
4. Execution of Documents. It in the performance of services under
this contract, yos gabume Une custody of Covernment funde er tako tiile of
record to property of any nature whatroever and wherever attuate, which
proparty has in faci bech purchased with anonies of the U. S. Governmeat, you
horoby recognise and acknowledge the existence of a trusi Telationship, aithor
250 Cr sonstructive, and you agree in execute whatever documents may be
required by the Government to evidence the relationship.
5. Status. You are not an employea of the United Statoa Coverna.ont
under mia agreement and are not entitled to any benefita normally incident
an employee status.
6. Socracy. You will be required to keep forevar secret this contract
and all information which you may obtain by rosson hereof junious reloaned in
writing by the Government from such obligation), with full knowledge that
violation of such cocracy way subject you to criminal prosecution under the
Caplonage Lave, dated 25 June 1948, as accended, and other applicabis laws
and regulations.
1

14-00000
SECRET
9. Instructions. Instructione received by you from the Government la
briefing or otherwise are a part of this contract and are tacorporatou herein,
provided that such inotruciisas are not inconsistent with the torna horool.
8. Unauthorised Commitments. No promises or commitments pertaining
to rights, privileges or boastits other than those expressly stipulated in
writing in this agreement or any amendment therilu shall be binding o
Government.
9. Torm. This contract to effective as of 5 Juno 1959, and shall
contlaus thereafter for a period of ons (1) year unlese sooner terminated
ofthert
(a) By thirty (30) days' actual notice by either party hereto, or
(b) Without prior notice by the Government, in the event of a broach
of this contract by your violation of the security provisions hereof
or by your otherwise rendering yourself unavailable for acceptable
service.
Subject to the availability of appropriations, this agreement may be extended
upon notice from the Coverturent. Termination of this agreement will not
release you from the obligations of any oscurity cath you may be required to
tako.
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

ACCEPTEDI
Brace G. Mastrocola
WITNESS?
APPROVED:
C.H.
C... Tim Cobl 12156
BY
Contracting Officer
i
