14-00000
104-10172-10105
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: EUITART CAIPIZANO, AGUSTINN, DR.
C-737418

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: CI/CA
ROON:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
4:00 PAT ORR Phou
104578

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

SECRET

THIS FOLDER IS NOT TO BE RELEASED OUTSIDE OF
CI/STAFF. THE PERSON CHARGED WITH THIS FOLDER
MUST NOTIFY CI/OA(5077) IMMEDIATELY IF IT IS
TRANSFERRED TO ANOTHER GROUP WITHIN
CI/STAFF SO THAT IT MAY BE RECHARGED TO THE
PROPER PERSON, AND SO THAT THE FOLDER CAN
BE READILY LOCATED AT ANY TIME AS NEEDED.

DATE
727418
---
14-00000
SECRET
APPROVAL WORK RECORD
PROJECTS CARD MADB
πις
18 June 1961
19 June 1963 Jew
Ca
GUITART Campizano, Agustin, Dr.
2018
727418
3.0.0
DATE OF BIRTH
25 April 1910
CASE OFFICER
Carl Trettin
1
C.N.C
OTHER
APPROVALS
PRO I
CROPTON
PLACE OF B
Cardenas, Cuba
DIVISION
SAS/OS-
REMARKS
INITIALS
CATE
blo.
:
PRO 11
138893
GREEN
LIST
NPR AMC 26 J63
:.
NDI
RI
TRACES:
NDI
OPS & DIV.
TRACES
PROJECT
JMATE
EXTENSION
7646
CONDENTS
Records on Former Geraan Agents Checked
In CVR&i, dato: dato: 19 June 1983
Results:
NR 19 Nov 63
Nephew of 201-727417
FIELD
TRACES
S.O.
LADICES...
FBI
INDICES
Not Init: Subject residing in New Orleans
Coleman 2
p
NIC - su mimo
* Subject of prior t
to 00/2. Coordination must
be effected is the fact
in 5.0.H.
ORAA NOTICE
5.0.
INVESTIGATION
BRITTEN
5.0.
INVESTIGATION
TECHNICAL
INTERROGATION
REPORT
---
14-00000
SECRET
CANCELLATION TO DIVISION
MEMORANDUM FOR: CHIEF, SAS/OS
ATTENTION: Carl Trettin
13 Jan 1961, Jo
C# 201-727118
GUITART Campuzano, Agustin, Dra is cancelled
The file on
and closed in CI/OA for the following reason:
Failure to submit PRQ-II as required under CSI No. 10-5 or to
indicate any further interest in obtaining approval for the operational
use of Subject.

Prior to any future use of Subject, it will be necessary to furnish
a new approval request (Form #772) to CI/OA.

/s/ Edward P. Brown

CHIEF, CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION
FORM
691 ODDOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIO...
SECRET.
1.
221
---
14-00000
SET UP
FOR POR
SET UP
FOR DA
SECRET

INSTRUCTION SHEET
AREA
SPECIAL
COVERT NAME
CHECK
10 JAN 1964
EXPEDITE FOL
INDICES
727418
ISSUE OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
EXTENO POA FOR BAYS UNTIL
REINSTATE POA FOR. DAYS UNTIL
FORWARD ATTACHMENT TO DIVISION
FORWARD TO
SECURITY OFFICE
REQUEST GREEN LIST
REQUEST RESULTS F110 Dossier REVIE
REVIEW FI'D COLLATERAL INFORMATION
REQUEST RESULTS TECHNICAL
INTERROGATION FROM
SECURITY OFFICt
REVIEW SECURITY OFFICE REPORT AT CI/OA
REVIEW SECURITY OFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO AT CI/OA
CANCEL PER DIVISION WEWO DATED.
(No notice to Division)
REVIED AT CI/OA
FOR REPORT
LCPLUTTER REPORT
REQUEST REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCE.
ADVISE CI/OA OF NATURE AND SIGNIFICANCE
X
CANCEL PER CIFOR NOTICE TO DIVISION
(Reason checked below. or see remarks)
REQUEST RI TRACES
FILE
REQUEST OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES
TICKLE
REQUEST FIELD TRACES
REQUEST
POA EXPIRED
REMATES
١١ ٠٠٩
NOTICE
FIきます
SECOND
FINAL
OTHER
PLEASE SUBMIT PRO 11. IF, WITHIN 30 DAYS, NO FURTHER INTEREST IN SUBJECT
HAS BEEN INDICATED, NA BILL BE AUTOMATICALLY CANCELLED.

•FAILURE TO SUBMIT PES 11 AS REQUIRED UNDER CSI NO. 10-5 OR TO INDICATE ANY FURTHER INTEREST IN OBTAINING APPROVAL
FOR THE OPERATIONAL USE OF SUBJECT.
13 JAN 1964
CANCELLED
COPY 1S SECURITY

707.......
........
sl Floard P. Brown
Leonard W. Tate
SECRET
CROWDI
....
---
14-00000
MEMURANDUM FOR: Chief,
SECRET
PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
SAS/OS -C. Trettin
NUMBER
201-727418
SUBJECT
GUITART Campusano, Agustin
REFERENCE: Your Memorandum, Dated
18 June 1963 crm
A Provisional Operational Approval is granted for the use of this Subject
as set forth below.

A Provisional Operational Approval issued by CI Staff grants the same
authority, on a temporary basis, for the use of an individual as the authority
granted in an Operational Approval unless otherwise specified by CI/OA. It is
hased, however, only on preliminary file checks and investigation and is sub-
Ject to a further final review when all investigation is completed.
FORM
To process the Operational Approval, full information (completed PRQ
Parts I and II) must be submitted as soon as possible and not later than six
(6) months from this date. An Operational Approval will follow when all
investigation is completed and upon the receipt of satisfactory PRQ Parts I
and II. Cancellation must be requested if use of Subject by interested Di-
visions ceases.
10s Carroll, Je
APPROVAL
CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION
7.59 125 Posts Li...
DATE
- 8 JUL
SECRET
---
14-00000
SECRET

DATE: 3 July 1:63 cm

REMORANDUM FORt. Deputy Director of Security
(Investigations and Support)
SUBJECT So
201727418

ATTACHMENTS (IF ANY): -

THOMAS CARROLL, JR.
CHIEF, CI/OA
13/ Thomas Carroll, J
FEI from Jare Roman
SECRET

GROUP
Excluded from avtomatik
dowingrading ad
declassification
---
14-00000
SE.T
UP
FOR
SECRET
INSTRUCTION SHEET
8 JUL 263
727418
SET UP FOR P.C.A.
TAPEDITE
EXPEDITE
INDICES:
DATE
DATE
IMICES:
OA
SP INQUIRY
COY'T N. CH
USE?
AREA:
ISSUE OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
REQUEST "GREEN LIST"
ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
REQUEST RESULTS STAFF DOSSIER REVIEW
EXTEND POA FOR
DAYS UNTIL
REVISO STAFFID COLLATERAL INFORMATION
REQUEST RESULTS TECH.
REINSTATE POA FOR
DAYS UNTIL
INTERROGATION FROM
SECURITY
OFFICE..
DIVISION
FORWARD ATTACHMENT TO DIVISION
REVIES OF SECURITY OFFICE REPORT AT CI/OA
FORWARD ATTACHMENT TO SECURITY OFFICE
Revita of SECURITY OFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO AT CI/04
CANCEL PER DIVISION MEMO DATED.
REVICE OF FOL REPORT AT CI/04
(No notice to division)
CANCEL PER CI/OA (Notice to division)
(See Remarks for reason)
REQUEST RI TRACES
REQUEST REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCE
FILE
REQUEST FOR OPERATIONAL AND DIVISIONAL TRACES
REQUEST FOR FIELD TRACES
NOTICE
FIRST
SECOND
ITMIRD ANCY
FINAL
PRO I
PRO 11
OPNER
REQUEST
REMARKS
10-0
:
Eurail Brown
707...................
SECRET
---
14-00000
MOMORANDUM FOR:
SUBJECT
(727418)
DPOB
P.O.A.
3261963
18 Ane 1963
Oparation Statesida 8.30
Fotification to the Federal Bureau of Investigation
of CIA's Datent to Contact the Budjout
: Dr. Agustin GUTTART Compusano
2 25 April 1910, Cardenes, Cuba
SECRET
Based upon date submitted so
identifiable information pertant
to your inquiry leented t
This is the rest of a restor
an Bi tile cheek onty
છ- ૪૪ ૪૧; 74
a
JUL 2 2 25 PHE
---
14-000
TO
SUBJECT
BAS/03
SECRET
ATTENTI0N
Carl Trettin
CI/OA NUMBER
2008
BLOG.
0019
CCS FILE NO.
GUTEART Campusano, Agustin (Dr.) C-201-727418 526 0
CCS CASE OFFICER
Richard J. Biladdau
Central Cover Staff concurs in your proposal to use the above individual
for the purpose indicated. In keeping with the requiresent placed upon Central
Cover Staff to maintain an accurate register of current nonofficial cover activity,
you are specifically requested to advise Central Cover Staff Non-Official.Cover
promptly by memorandum when subject has been activated.

☐ If check mark appears here, information of interest concerning subject
is in CCS/NC files. After operational approval is received, and prior to making
arrangements for initial contact thereunder, you are specifically requested to
confer with CCS/NC concerning other Agency interests possibly affected and the
advisability of additional coordination.

Ju 3 10 41 AN 63
DATE
SIGNATURE OF CHIEF, CCS/NC
COPY TO
CI/OA
26 JUN 1963
Thosas K Strange
FORM
12-02 1678 USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
CCS CONCURRENCE
SECRET
(1).
-
---
14-00000
SECRET
Date
REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW
10:
SAS/OS C. Trettin
FROM: CHIEF, CI/OA
20 June 1963
CNO.
201-727415
SUBJECT
CRA
GUITART Carrizano, Acustin
IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPROVAL IN THIS CASE, IT IS REQUESTED
THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELOW, OR REVIEW INFORMATION AS INDICATED.
PRO I
PRO1.1
FIELD TRACES
RETRACE
OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES
RESULTS OF TECHNICAL INTERROGATION
GREEN LIST
FIRST
SECONO
THIND AND FINAL
REVIEW OF STAFF'D DOSSIER
REVIED OF STAFFID COLLATERAL INFORMATION
RIVICE OF SECURITY OFF, REPORT AT CI/OA
REVIEW OF SEC. OFF. CONCURRENCE MEMO AT CI/OA
REVITO OF FOI REPORT AT CI/OA
REVITE OF ATTACHED REFERENCE
OTHERS (S0o Remarka)
NOTICE:
REMARKSI
Please coordinate with Fol.

/8/ Thomas Carroll, Jr.
889
SECRET
..........
71
:
1201
---
14-00000
TO
FROM
SECRET
NEQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION AND (OR) NAME CHECK
: Deputy Director of Security
: Chief, CI/Operational Approval
and Support Division
SUBJECT:
201-727418
10.
:
1. TYPE OF REQUEST
SPEC. Ing.
9. INDICES RESULTS REQUESTED BY
26 June 1963
4. ARES OF SUBJECT'S ASSIGNMENT
SAS/OS New Orleans, La.
S. USE OF SUBJECT
cut-out in Fl operation.
c.
ام
DAPE
19 June 1963
PROJECT
JMATE
2. FBI CHECK REQUESTED BY (Date)
Ieue
6. INVESTIGATION AND COVER
C.1.4. INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION
SUBJECT AWARE OF .. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN
x
π
SUBJECT Award 2.1.4. INTERN
E. LIMITAvions on COVERAGE IN THE VESTIGATION OF SUBJECT
PED COVER PRETEST TO BE USED IN CONDUCTING PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT

a. acasom FOR NO INESTIGATION Outside of cin (Explain fully)
7. RI TRACES
NDI
8. DivisiON TRACES
NDI
9. FIELD TRACES
Not Init: Subject residing in New Orleans
10. GREEN LIST INITIATED
T. ATTACHMENTS.
12. REMARES
x VES
PRO PART
NO
XPARTIAL DIO.
OTHER:
P. O. A.
GDA
D:
もじの
Unhas the uan
4.
SECRET
18/ Thomas. Carroll, Jr.
INITIALS
Jaw
---
14-00000
رسم
INSTRUCTION SHEET
SECRET
DAPE
CASE NO.
19 JUN 1963
EXPEDITE DAPE
INDICES:
SET UP FOR P.O.A.
26 Jure 63
SET
UP
FOR
SP INGY
ISSUE OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
EXPEOTTE DATE
FBI
INDICES:
GOV'T W. Сна
USE:
AREA:
PEQUEST "GREEN LIST
ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
727418
REQUEST RESULTS STAFF/D DOSSIER REVIED
EXTEND POA FOR
DAYS UNTIL
REVIEW STAFF/O COLLATERAL INFORMATION
REINSTATE POA FOR
DAYS UNTIL
REQUEST RESULTS TECH.
INTERROGATION FROM
SECURITY
OFFICE
DIVISION
FORWARD ATTACHMENT TO DIVISION
REVIEW OP SECURITY OFFICE REPORT, AT CI/OA-
FORWARD ATTACHMENT TO SECURITY OFFICE
REVIEW OF SECURITY OFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO AT CI/OA
CANCEL PER DIVISION MEMO DATEDI
(No notice to division)
REVIEW OF FBI REPORT AT CI/OA.
CANCEL PER CI/OA (Notice to division)
(Soo "Remarks for reason,
REQUEST RI TRACES
REQUEST REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCE
FILE
REQUEST FOR OPERATIONAL AND DIVISIONAL TRACES
TICKLE
REQUEST FOR FIELD TRACES
REQUEST
REMARKS
PRO I
PRO 11
NOTICE
FIRST
SECOND
THIRO AND
FINAL
OTHER
"Great New Orleans, La.
use
To SAS:
Cut out in FI operation
Please coordinate with FBI
Edward Brown
....
707
SECRET
(211
---
:
14-00000
10:
SECRET
REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION
PIR fur
XX CI/Operational Approval and Support Division
Security Support Division/office of Security
SUBJECT:
(True name) Dr. Agustin GUITART Campuzano
CRYPTONYM. PSEUDONYM, AKA OR ALIASES
FROM:
PROJECT
18 Jun 63
Wendell Ullery
SAS/IOS
GG14
JMATE
CI/CA FILE NO.
201 FILE NO.
SO FILE NO.
727418
1. TYPE ACTION FENESTED
XXPROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL
COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL
COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL FOR LIAISON DITH US. OFFICIALS
2. SPECIFIC AREA OF USE
New Orleans, La.
3. FULL DETAILS OF USE
FI Asset
PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
SOVERY MAME CHECK
SPECIAL INQUIRY 'So field investigation).
his
for use as cut-out to/uncle, Rene GUITART Rodriguez,
(201-727417) who is residing in Cuba.
NOTE: 00/C has contacted Subject, but has no current interest.
4. INVESTIGATION AND COVER
A. U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST MAY BE SHOEN DURING INVESTIGATION?
3. CIA INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?
C. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM?
D. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HIM?
E. INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE IN THE INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.
F. SUGGEST "COVER PRETEXT TO BE USED IN CONDUCTING PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.
IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA, EXPLAIN FULLY
8. PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS
YES
NO
X
X
X
X
POS 11 WILL BE FORBARDED
X PRO 1. OF ECHIVALENT, IN (2) COPIES ATTACHED
PRO 11. DR EQUIVALENT IN (1) COPY ATTACHED
XGALEN LIST ATTACHED, NOI 138893
4. RI TRACES
DEROGATORY
BILL. FORWARD
NO RECOND
7. DIVISION TRASES--
DEROGATORY
XDEOCATORY
BILL FORCARD
NO RECORD
8. FIELD TRACES
NO DECCOD
BILL FORD
DEJAY ATTACHED
Jun 1985 N 63
TTACHED
10 01006ATORY INFO.
List Source CECREO
X
907 12TIATED (Suplanation)
r
Subject residing in Seyleans
sengruesorgerl Trettin
772
....
SECRET
i
---
14-00000
SECRET
prq part I
NAMB Dr. Agustin GUITART Campuzano

ة
DPOB 25 April 1910, Cardenas, Cuba

RESIDENCE 4009 Elba St., New Orleans 25, La.

OCCUPATION Doctor of Science (Mathematics & Physics)

Presently teaching at Xavier University in
New Orleans.

EMPLOYMENT HIST. Formerly a Prof. at the Univ. of Havana

Served as Minister of Education during the early
part of Carlos PRIO's tenure as head of the Cuban
Gov't.

COURT RECORD Was imprisoned on the Isle of Pines during
MACHADO's term. (date unknown)

SPOUSE 8 Helena TORO

CHILDREN Agustin, Jorge, Vilma Helena, William

CUBAN ADDRESS Havana, Calle 64 No. 1502

NOTE Subject arrived in the U.S.A. in Feb. 1962 thru
Ope Locka, Fla. where he was debriefed by 00/C.

/C has no current interest in Subject.

SECRET
