DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

TO
Chief, WHD

INFO:
Chief, SAS; Chief of Station, WAVE

FROM
Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT
Contact Report/ITAMII-9

Attached herewith are contact reports of meetings with LI TAMIL-9
on 17 and 29 July 1963.

Willard C CURTIS

Attachment:
Contact Report

Distribution:
2 - C/WHD w/2/att
2 - C/SAS w/a/att
2 - COS WAVE w/2/att
3 - Filos

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HMMA 21849

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

DATE
31 July 1963

HOS FILE NUMBER
201-330173

MEMORANDUM FOR THE
FROM
SUBJECT :
Lame
Meen 11-23 17 July 1963

1. An unexpected meeting was held with LAME on 17
July -- Barker has a scheduled meeting with AMSAL-1 the Comercio
Ejercicio Nacional and/or Campo at 2100 hours was the plan --
Barker arrived at 2103 hours and just as --was about to enter
stopped by the corner of Gutenberg and Thiers -- he just drove up --
to make a call to
at a pay phone.
was supposed to meet
--stopped out of the broad
--but as B's car sailed --
said, in English, "Here I am."
- got in the car and drove away
--explained that he had called B's home --
understood the mystery was because --
3's wife, he said
about 2030 hours and --
probably be back in about half an hour--LAME came to see who might be
(from the pay phone at Gutenberg
--saw Barker pass- Later spotted the car pull up by the corner in the
vicinity of Thiers usual purp
-later spotted the car pull up by the corner in the
Thiers usual purpose.
time, Barker had spoken with his -- His wife, be assumed
the word that the AME
-explained his presente
better pick up point -- LAME
the end
(partly true) --
was only co -- for
soon was made of another scheduled meeting with AMSEL at the
hotel --
Hotel where he had been supposed to keep
meeting, with AMSEL -- where he had been supposed to keep off at 2325 hours
that might reveal something about source of the story

(with Alan Culbertson in the vicinity of the Dawn Hotel) --
embassy and cultural sections are such sharp people, hence when -s. LAME
plotted clandestine correction -- that would seem
the dangerous. LAME explained his presence--at the --
and warning and saw his previous meetings were explained
3. reporti
Cuban Engravings
(4) He reports
scheduled and non scheduled developments
(a) A big celebration of the 5th of July--is being planned to take place
in (Hampico). Dida celebration -- will take place in the
Club Circulo Tampiconense. (Primary), the principal particip-
are RICO, and stink boat or
is ready for these events
(b)

was introduced to two new people - and asked if LAME had
seen them -- LAME had

She was introduced to the First Lady by (Inu) BARRIOS --
of the first Lady (Chronic).
(c) The first Lady, the now Consul Colonel, that,
because he has done quite well in his Cuban relations.

(d) APALCIO also reported that the passing PUCHU LA CUBA is
trying to obtain certain airprints.

(e) APALCIO said that when he was in Prague he had trouble
with the climate and he asked to be sent to some other Europe
country - was surprised at the suddenness of his transfer
to Mexico.

(f) response to a question as to the should be the who
as, as, in his
told B that
belief, would be easiest to recruit among the Embassy staff, said
that he knows about JOBAIN Loyalty to the Castro regime
felt might be recruitable but would never activate him in
he might want a
such a risky venture.goes window shopping along
San Juan de Letran often - might be approachable there.

(g) Only two Cubans were invited to the French Ambassador's
Residence on Bastille Day. Ambassador is becoming
more openly pro-Castro in appearance, but B behaved normal
to him at a cocktail party a short while ago. French cul
(and I don't know what their
-at the Embassy who introduced the Ambassador to
to the French
Attachee to which he introduced the Cuban Attache.
is a close friend of that of
stayed at his side during the celebration on
14th At this array , B only gave him a superficial man and
it became clear that there is a Cuban in the distinction
1 suggested he would be to give them an impression
of another young woman
to give
the impression they
did, the Americans

(h) of
reported on recent meetings with two Ecuadoreans with Escala
for the Embassy.
A few days ago APALCIO saw in a group of
immigrant Ecuadoreans in Ecuador
to to Cuba
(i) About an embassy employee is involved with
transactions with Mexican individuals -
restrictio
and that it is
that he may have to work in a more clandestine fashion to avoid
his personal friction -- in this connection

(j) At the the Embassy some underligation by - that the

(k) turned over to (for potential) a handbill put out
by the Escuela Normal Rural de Santa Therobe Coahuila
dated 10 June 1963, explaining that schools invitation
to Fidel Castro to act as sponsor of the 1958-1963
graduating class. Copy attached.

(1) turned out a pornographic cartoon (for return) dis-
tributed by pro-Castro elements in Tampico. Copy not
attached.

(m) Wilfredo of the Cuban Consulate, Tampico, reported that
Luisa CALDERON has a sister residing in Reynosa, Tem,
married to an American of Mexican descent. Luisa may
come up to the border to visit her sister soon -or her
mother may make the trip -- details not clear.

seems to respect him highly and to admire him for his. He is also
getting along very nicely with his new boss, APARICIO. His information
gathering method is still to keep his eyes and ears open and ask no questions
-thus he often gets only fragments -- while questions or discreet elicitati
might fill in detail. He is extremely wary lest he arouse any suspicion.

6. While he suggested that
he suggested that
on the 20th in
Madara -he was also concerned lest any disruption might
get him in trouble since he is the principal organizer of both affairs
felt that the Mexican government might think the disruption was engineered
by the Castro Cubans, themselves, to throw suspicion ca the anti-Castros.

is to protect him. He loves talking about
--and needs constant encouragement and shoring-up.
He lo inclined to wax himself on the back quite often and wait
This characteristic comes out in his conversation with whom B stops and says,
I think my ideas on handling such-and-such are pretty clever,
don't you

pick up Jill standing at the corner of Thiers and Melchor Ocampo
at the prescribed hour and driving slowly up the street to Thiers and Gutenberg
the street to Melchor Ocampo - Will cruise by in his car and make the pick
up while L is waiting. details will be worked out at the next
meeting.
