2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MHFNO: 95-1366774
SENSIND: RYBAT
PAGE: 1

FRP:

STAFF

CONF: CE/W/MB
FILE, CE/W, DDO (4/P)
INFO: CE/TNI, CEDORECORD, COMPT, LIMITO, MDSX, ODPD,

95 1366774
ASO
PAGE 001
TOT: 1522112 AUG 95
DIRECTOR 404768

SECRET
STAFF

TO: IMMEDIATE MINSK.

FROM: LIMIT C/CE/W/MB INFO C/CE/W

DIRECTOR 404768

SLUGS: WNINTEL RYBAT CODEL

SUBJECT: DRAFT BRIEFING PAPER AND OSWALD FILES

REF: A. MINSK 14140 95 13601.7.8
B. DIRECTOR 398108 95 1311426.

TEXT:

1- ACTION REQUIRED: PLEASE CORRECT DRAFT BRIEFING PAPER TO
REFLECT CHANGES REQUESTED IN PARA 3, BELOW.

2. SRE PARA 2, REF A THE BACKGROUND OF THE OFFER TO PROVIDE
THE<LEE HARVEY OSWALD>FILES WAS TRANSMITTED TO STATION ON 9 AUG
VIA REF B THE BOTTOM LINE IS THAT THE MATTER WAS TURNED OVER TO
THE FBI BECAUSE OF THE SENSITIVITY CONNECTED WITH THE KENNEDY
ASSASSINATION. WE ARE QUERYING THE FBI TO SEE WHERE THE MATTER
STANDS. YOU ARE WELCOME TO PASS THIS ALONG TO THE AMBASSADOR. WE
WILL ADVISE AS SOON AS THE FBI RESPONDS TO OUR REQUEST.

3. PAGES ONE AND TWO OF YOUR BRIEFING PAPER ARE RIGHT ON THE
MARK. PAGE THREE HOWEVER CONTAINS SOME ISSUES THAT WE REQUEST YOU
DELETE AND/OR SOFTEN.

A. FIRST SENTENCE OF PARAGRAPH 4. DO NOT DISCUSS ANY
UNILATERAL OPERATIONS WITH THE SENATOR. WE ARE CONCERNED WITH ANY
DISCUSSION OF SOURCES; IN THIS INSTANCE THE CASE IS INACTIVE AND
WOULD NOT ADD TO YOUR DISCUSSION.

B. PARAGRAPH 7. PLEASE REDRAFT TO READ AS FOLLOWS:
REGARDING EMBASSY SECURITY, OUR CONCERN IS THAT WITHOUT A 24 HOUR
PRESENCE WE DO NOT HAVE AN EFFECTIVE DETERRENT TO SURREPTITIOUS
ENTRY. ELECTRONIC SECURITY DEVICES WILL ONLY TELL US THAT AN
SECURITY AT
ENTRY HAS BEEN MADE. IT WILL NOT STOP AN ENTRY.
EMBASSY MINSK WAS RECENTLY DISCUSSED BY CE OFFICERS WITH THE SSCI,
THE FACT, OF
WHO HAVE EXPRESSED THEIR CONCERN TO THE DEPARTMENT.
COURSE, IS THAT STATE DEPARTMENT DOES NOT HAVE SUFFICIENT FUNDS TO
HAVE MARINE GUARDS AT ALL LOCK AND LEAVE EMBASSIES AND NWBOLTON
APPRECIATES THAT. (FYI: THIS IS A PARTICULARLY CONTENTIOUS ISSUE
WITH THE AMBASSADOR. WE SEE NO POINT IN ALIENATING HIM BY PUTTING

SECRET

SECRET
PAGE: 2
MHFNO: 95-1366774
SENSIND: RYBAT
HIM ON THE SPOT WITH THE SENATOR WHEN, IN FACT, THIS MATTER IS
BEING SORTED OUT IN WASHINGTON.)

C. PARAGRAPH 8. PLEASE DELETE IT. HOS HAS NOT AGREED
TO ALL OF THE PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS YOU NOTED SO WE WOULD PREFER
THAT THEY NOT BE DISCUSSED WITH THE SENATOR.

3. PLEASE ADVISE IF YOU DID NOT RECEIVE REF B AND WE WILL
RETRANSMIT. REGARDS AND GOOD LUCK!

4. FILE: NONE. DECL OADR DRV HUM 4-82.

RELNO: E224938
ORIG: C/CE/W/MB (DOWDON, 73516); AUTH: C/CE/W (WEBER); REL:
C/CE/W (WEBER.) CL BY 520992.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET
