104-10326-10074
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MHFNO 95-1374342 SENSIND: RYBAT PAGE: 1

FRP:
SECRET SECRET
STAFF
ADV: CE/W/MB (1102Z)
ACTION: CE/W/MB (773) INFO: CE/TNI, CEDORECORD, COMPT, LIMITO, MDSX, ODPD,
FILE, CE/W, DDO (4/W)
95 1374342 PAGE 001 95 1374342
ASP TOR: 161102Z AUG 95 MNSK 14144
SECRET 161059Z AUG 95 STAFF

CITE MINSK 14144 (FALANTZ ACTING)
TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.
FOR: LIMIT/CE/W/MB INFO C/CE/W
SLUGS: WNINTEL RYBAT CODEL
SUBJECT: BRIEFING PAPER AND OSWALD FILES
REF: DIRECTOR 404798 95 1366840

TEXT:
1. ACTION REQUIRED: FYI OR COMMENT

2. STATION IS FAXING TO HQS A COPY OF BRIEFING PAPER
FOR CODEL SHELBY, REVISED IN ACCORD WITH SUGGESTIONS OF
REFERENCE. UNLESS ADDITIONAL REVISIONS ARE REQUIRED, THIS
IS THE COPY WHICH WE WILL PROVIDE TO CODEL TO READ, BUT NOT
TO CARRY AWAY.

3. APPRECIATE SUMMARY INFORMATION REGARDING
HISTORICAL CONVERSATION WITH LOCAL SERVICE ABOUT FILES ON
*<LEE HARVEY OSWALD. ACOS BELIEVES HE DID SEE THE CABLE
MENTIONED IN REFAT TIME OF RECEIPT STATION WAS VERY BUSY
AND IN ACCORD WITH "READ AND BURN" POLICY A COPY--WAS-NOT
(RETAINED. A RETRANSMISSION IS NOT NECESSARY ALSO, IT MAY
NOT BE NECESSARY FOR HQS TO PURSUE THE MATTER FURTHER,
SINCE SUMMARY INFORMATION WILL PROBABLY SUFFICE.
ADDITIONALLY, ACOS HAS LEARNED THAT YESTERDAY THE
AMBASSADOR SUBMITTED A DIPLOMATIC NOTE TO DEPUTY FOREIGN
MINISTER ANDREI SANIKOV WHICH IS AN OFFICIAL REQUEST FOR
THE FILES ON OSWALD. STATION JUDGES BY THIS THAT FBI HAS
CARRIED THE ACTION TO STATE_WITH THIS RESULT. STATION
COMMENT: THERE IS BELIEF HERE THAT THE FILES WERE MADE
*AVAILABLE TO THE AUTHOR OF A RECENT BOOK ON THE KENNEDY>
*<ASSASSINATION->

4. STATION WILL ADVISE HQS OF IMPRESSIONS OF CODEL
SHELBY AT CONCLUSION OF VISIT. THANKS FOR PROMPT AND
THOUGHTFUL SUPPORT IN PREPARATIONS FOR THIS VISIT.

5. FILE: NONE DECL_OADR_DRV-HUM482
SECRET

13-00000

MHFNO: 95-1374342 PAGE: 2
END OF MESSAGE
SECRET
SECRET
SECRET
