14-00000
104-10183-10232
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

SENDER WILL. CHE
UNCLASSIFIED LASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM
CONFIDENTIAL SECRET
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

TO NAME AND ADDRESS DATE INITIALS
1 Bill Wainwright03
2
3
4
S Bryant 03
ACTION DIRECT REPLY PREPARE REPLY
APPROVAL DISPATCH RECOMMENDATION
COMMENT FILE RETURN
CONCURRENCE INFORMATION SIGNATURE

Remarks:
06
33 attached on AMWHIF-1 and Etege.man legen

Flease get word to A-l that 158.he sees
to get as much info from him on his current
situation in Brazil, who he knows in
Cuban co munity and Cubans he knows in Cuba.
Naturally, without exposing nis (A-l's)
connections with us.
NE/5 will handle contact with Charlie Davis)
03
and subsequent contact, if ary, with tegel.
FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER
06

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO DATE
Зос В.
UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET
FOEN NO
237 Use previous editions
140
WtI6 CRICE 146-0-38282

14-00000
УРУ
Chief, WHD

SECRET X

Chief of Station, Rio de Janeiro
PERUKCEN
Subject of 201-720615

AR: Paragraph 2.
Refst A. HBRM-5816
B. HERA-11177

06
[Quenit Siegel is biegelimen.]
1. Subject applied for, and was granted on 29 April 1964,
a 15-day tourist vise to the United States. He told the consular
officer that he planned to leave on about 10 Key for France,
where he planned to stay for a month or more before going to the
United States. He plans to conteet the following friends there:

Mr. and Mrs. Benri Maslich
110-33 72nd Ave.
Forest Hilis 75
New York.

Fr. and Mrs. John Duys
1 East 66th St.
Rev York 21, Rew York

Hr. and Mrs. II. Gilbert Smith
Dockboard
2 Canal St.
New Orleans, Le.

2. If Subject also contacts ALEHIP-1, it is requested thet
the latter debrief him on his PERUEN contects here and, if he
appears to be operationally useful, that a contact be set up in
Rio de Janeiro, as requested in Reference B.

Fistribution:
4- WED
Jcd
- Files
30 April 1964
Harry V. WITHERSY

HBRA-12952

MAY 1 1964
