104-10302-10030 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

27 December 1963
SC No. 00624/63
Copy

WEEKLY REVIEW
OFFICE OF CURRENT INTELLIGENCE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS CODE WORD MATERIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TOP SECRET
52-228703
GROUP | Excluded from automaric
downgrading and declassification

13-00000

This document contains classified information affecting the national
security of the United States within the meaning of the espionage
laws, US Code Title 18, Sections 793, 794, and 798. The law prohibits
its transmission or the revelation of its contents in any manner to
an unauthorized person, as well as its use in any manner prejudicial
to the safety or interest of the United States or for the benefit of any
foreign government to the detriment of the United States.

It is to be seen only by US personnel especially indoctrinated
and authorized to receive COMMUNICATIONS INTELLIGENCE
information; its security must be maintained in accordance with
COMMUNICATIONS INTELLIGENCE REGULATIONS.

No action is to be taken on any COMMUNICATIONS INTELLI-
GENCE which may be contained herein, regardless of the advantages
to be gained, unless such action is first approved by the Director
of Central Intelligence.

DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

This document MUST NOT BE RELEASED TO FOREIGN
GOVERNMENTS. If marked with specific dissemination
controls in accordance with the provisions of DCID 1/7,
the document must be handled within the framework of
the limitation so imposed.

13-00000

(TOP SECRET DINAR

CONTENTS
(Information as of 1200 EST, 26 December 1963)

THE COMMUNIST WORLD
SOVIET TRADE ACTIVITY IN THE INDUSTRIAL WEST
Within a week after the central committee approved
Khrushchev's plan for the chemical industry, Soviet
traders apparently had their instructions and were
renewing contacts in the industrial West.
CHINESE COMMUNIST LEADERS' AFRICAN TOUR
While Chou En-lai and Chen Yi have been able to
project an aura of Afro-Asian amity during the
first two weeks of their two-month tour, they have
not scored-comparable successes in the political or
economic fields.
EAST GERMAN REACTION TO RELAXATION OF BERLIN TRAVEL
The East German people, while elated over the holi-
day travel arrangements in Berlin, are publicly
voicing hope that they may be permitted to visit
their relatives in West Berlin and West Germany.
NORTH KOREA IMPROVES AIR DEFENSE CAPABILITY
Pyongyang has more widely dispersed its supersonic
MIG-21s, has acquired relatively sophisticated new
radar, and has equipped its IL-28s with an improved
blind bombing and navigational system.
NORTH VIETNAM'S MILITARY ESTABLISHMENT
This military force, primarily a ground army with
no tactical air and little naval capability, is
nevertheless the most formidable in Southeast Asia.
Its most notable achievement is its highly special-
ized capability to support and maintain insurgency
operations in adjacent countries. (Published sep-
arately as Special Report SC No. 00624/63B)

ASIA-AFRICA
ENTHUSIASM FOR SOUTH VIETNAM REGIME FLAGGING
LAOS
The military regime is beginning to take steps to
make its counterinsurgency effort more effective,
but the generals still seem to have little idea of
how to rally significant popular support.

Page
1

2

3

4

5

Communist forces have moved to erase recent gains by
rightist units in central Laos. Neutralist and Pathet
Lao representatives are continuing their efforts to
ease tension between the two factions.
6

27 Dec 63
CURRENT INTELLIGENCE WEEKLY REVIEW
Page i
TOP SECRET DINAR

13-00000

(TOP SECRET DINARC

ASIA-AFRICA (continued)
FRENCH CABINET MINISTER TO VISIT CAMBODIA
Armed Forces Minister Messmer's visit in early Jan-
uary is designed primarily to strengthen French in-
fluence in the wake of Sihanouk's call for an end
to the US aid program.
ARABS PLAN NO OVERT ACTION AGAINST ISRAELI PROJECT
Arab military chiefs apparently feel that overt mil
itary action against Israel's Jordan River diversion
project is not feasible, but sabotage of its facili-
ties may be attempted.
CYPRUS DISPUTE FLARES AGAIN
The new outbreak of fighting on Cyprus is a reaction
to President Makarios' determination to change the
constitution so as to limit the role of the Turkish
minority.
BREAKUP OF THE FEDERATION OF RHODESIA AND NYASALAND
The ten-year-old federation is being dissolved on
31 December because its black African population
has persistently opposed it as a device to perpet-
uate white rule. Its dissolution will end London's
hopes for an economically integrated, multiracial
state and increase the danger of bitter clashes
between white and black nationalists in its three
erstwhile constituent territories. (Published sep-
arately as Special Report SC No. 00624/63A)
AREA NOTE
Saudi Arabia

Page
7

8

9

10

EUROPE
THE COMMON MARKET CRISIS
Agreements reached on agricultural policy on 23 De
cember are apparently sufficient to discourage De
Gaulle from breaking up the community. The agreement
on a position for the Kennedy Round is not necessarily
favorable to the US.
UK-US FRICTIONS OVER SHIPPING POLICY
The British Government has advised shipping circles
not to comply with US demands for information relat
ing to rate discrimination against US exports.
WEST GERMAN POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS
Willy Brandt has again taken the center of the polit-
ical stage with the success of negotiations to open
the Wall for the holiday season. He has been named

11

12

13
acting chairman of the SPD.

27 Dec 63
CURRENT INTELLIGENCE WEEKLY REVIEW
Page ii
TOP SECRET DINAR

13-00000

TOP SECRET DINAR (

EUROPE (continued)
NATO and Iceland

WESTERN HEMISPHERE
DOMESTIC POLITICS IN CUBA
Castro has cautiously continued efforts to reduce
the influence of the Moscow-oriented Cuban Com-
munists, who are said to have banded together to
work clandestinely against him.
DOMINICAN REGIME FACES NEW POLITICAL CHALLENGES
The killing of 15 guerrillas by army troops ap-
parently removes the insurgent threat but could
provoke dangerous political repercussions. The
head of the provisional government has already re--
signed.
BRAZIL
Appointment of Ney Galvao as finance minister
reduces the already slight prospect that Brazil's
critical financial problems would be handled ef-
fectively. Other cabinet changes may follow.
AREA NOTE
Bolivia
Page
14

15

16

17

18

27 Dec 63
CURRENT INTELLIGENCE WEEKLY REVIEW
Page iii
TOP SECRET DINAR

13-00000
TOP SECRET DINAR
The Communist World
SOVIET TRADE ACTIVITY IN THE INDUSTRIAL WEST
Within a week after the
central committee approved
Khrushchev's plan for the chem-
ical industry, Soviet traders
apparently had their instruc-
tions and budget allocations
and were renewing their activ-
ity in trade circles of the in-
dustrial West.
Contracts for fertilizer
installations, plastics and syn-
thetic plants, petrochemical
equipment, and mining machinery
are already in various stages of
negotiation. Officials in Bonn
report they have under consider-
ation a proposal by a West Ger-
man consortium to supply the
USSR with $400 million worth of
petrochemical equipment. A
Soviet mission is negotiating
with the British Imperial Chem-
ical Industry (ICI), which here-
tofore has supplied the USSR
with technical know-how. ICI
reportedly has offered to de-
liver equipment and processes
for the production of fertiliz-
ers, herbicides, rubber chem-
icals, and plastics. Negotia-
tions also are under way for
large numbers of Japanese chemi-
cal fertilizer plants.
In
Another Western consortium,
involving US equipment and proc-
esses, is discussing delivery
of a large oil refinery.
addition, contracts for a wide
range of other machinery and
equipment will probably soon be
signed. These contracts appar-
ently had been postponed until
the new chemical equipment buy-

ing program was presented to
the plenum and allocations for
various trade corporations for
next year were approved.
The Soviet need for addi-
tional credit to finance planned
expanded purchases is crucial.
The USSR presumably can generate
sufficient funds to meet down
payments on sizable orders.
However, credit arrangements
must be set now to spread out
the heavy crush of payments
which otherwise would fall due
in 1965-66 when equipment con-
tracted for next year will be
delivered.. Soviet ability to
increase hard-currency reserves
is not likely to improve in the
near future. Moscow's current
grain imports will reduce its
gold reserves by 25 percent.
If these continue beyond mid-
1964, the Soviet hard-currency
position will be under further
strain.
Despite the bleak foreign
exchange prospects for the USSR,
Soviet officials appear hopeful
that Western competition for
Soviet orders will be adequate
to foster Western governmental
and banking opinion favorable
to more and longer term credit.
Moscow may also hope that a
continuation of its relatively
restrained foreign policy will
be helpful in this context.
While viewing the USSR as an
acceptable commercial risk, the
banking community has hereto-
fore been unwilling to extend
credits beyond a five-year pe-
riod because of uncertainty
about future political develop-
ments. (SECRET)
27 Dec 63
CURRENT INTELLIGENCE WEEKLY REVIEW
Page 1
TOP SECRET DINAR

13-00000
TOP SECRET DINAR
The Communist World
CHINESE COMMUNIST LEADERS' AFRICAN TOUR
With two weeks of their pro- | continent. Criticism of the
jected two-month tour of Africa
completed, Chou En-lai and For-
eign Minister Chen Yi can claim
high marks for their efforts to
project an aura of Afro-Asian
amity and to identify Peiping
with African aspirations. There
is no evidence, however, that
they have scored any comparable
success in the political or eco-
nomic fields.

The joint communiqué issued
on 21 December at the conclusion
of the Chinese leaders' visit to
Cairo contains few surprises,
and reports from Algiers suggest
that discussions with Ben Bella
are following predictable lines.
Thus far the Chinese have at-
tempted to minimize differences,
play up past contacts, and press
such themes as militant struggle
against colonialism and "US im-
perialism."

In both Algiers and Cairo,
Chou's hosts sought to demon-
strate their nonalignment by
actions designed to play down
the impact of the Chinese lead-
ers' arrival. Chou was greeted
in Cairo with a 21-gun salute,
but Nasir was not on hand. In
Algeria, Ben Bella was on hand
to greet his guests, but the top-
level delegation he sent to the
Soviet Union just before Chou's
arrival is receiving more pub-
licity than the Chinese guests.

It has become increasingly
apparent that a major objective
of the trip has been to undercut
Soviet influence throughout the
USSR was reportedly a recurrent
theme in Chou's four lengthy
talks with Nasir. Nasir report-
edly said that Chou talked about
the USSR the way the Soviets
used to talk about the US. He
accused the Soviets of trying
to colonize China, of breaking
political and economic promises,
and of becoming tools of the
US, and he warned that any Afro-
Asian country which became de-
pendent on Moscow would suffer
the same fate as Peiping.

In Algeria, Chou sounded a
similar note. He cited China's
early support for Algerian rev-
olutionaries--support which ac-
tually pre-dated that of the USSR.
He has also undoubtedly scored
Soviet unreliability. The Chi-
nese may be pressing the Algerians
to use some of the $50-million
credit offered in October. This
offer was made to counter a $100-
million Soviet credit offered
earlier the same month.

Sino-Soviet rivalry for
African support also flared at
the UN, where Peiping outmaneu-
vered Moscow on the question of
enlarging the representation in
principal UN organs to accommo-
date the African bloc. Soviet
delegate Fedorenko had attempted
to make it appear that the Chi-
nese were opposed to the African-
sponsored expansion plan because
they insisted that any change
in the UN be tied to Peiping's
own admission to the Security
Council. The USSR found itself
holding a suddenly emptied bag,

27 Dec 63
CURRENT INTELLIGENCE WEEKLY REVIEW
Page 2
TOP SECRET DINAR

13:00000

TOP SECRET DINAR
however, when Peiping loudly
repudiated Fedorenko's statement
and accused the Soviets of using
the issue as a pretext for op-
posing Afro-Asian demands.

Chou can be expected to
capitalize on this during next
week's visit to Morocco and in
subsequent stops in Guinea,
Ghana, and Mali. No details of
Chou's itinerary beyond Rabat
have been made public by Peiping.
The Communist World
|_ Such secrecy may well be prompted
by security considerations. Chi-
nese officials were apparently
seriously shaken by the abortive
plot to kill Liu Shao-chi in
Cambodia last spring. The Chi-
nese envoy in Cairo reportedly
told Nasir of concern for Chou's
safety and asked that travel
plans during the Chinese leader's
visit to the UAR not be made
public. (SECRET NO FOREIGN DIS-
SEM)
EAST GERMAN REACTION TO RELAXATION OF BERLIN TRAVEL
Reaction of East-Germans
to the agreement to let West
Berliners visit relatives in
East Berlin is hopeful but still
fairly cautious, judging by re-
ports from local party officials.

The party central head-
quarters, obviously concerned
that the agreement might have
domestic repercussions, ordered
district officials to submit
immediate reports and detailed
follow-ups on reactions to this
partial relaxation of travel
curbs imposed in connection
with the building of the Berlin
Wall. Most of the responses
state that the people are elated
but are publicly voicing hope
that they may be permitted to
visit their relatives in West
Berlin and West Germany. Many
East Germans express hope that
the present move will be followed
by other relaxations--a reaction
probably quite unpalatable to
the regime.

Public comment--at least
as reported by the various
party headquarters--is-still
fairly cautious: One party
member in Magdeburg said: "The
reason we don't let our citizens
go to West Germany is that we
are afraid they will defect."
But he was promptly silenced by
comrades who parroted the party
line on "the terror against our
GDR citizens in West Germany."

Public expression of dis-
satisfaction with harsh travel
and internal controls has been
recurrent in recent months,
reaching a peak prior to the
20 October parliamentary elec-
tions.

The people's reaction to
the pass agreement with West
Berlin points up one of the re-
gime's major problems: how to
project an image of itself as a
sovereign state and of East Ber-
lin as its capital without in-
creasing discontent among its
population, who still risk shoot-
ing if they attempt to escape
to West Berlin. (SECRET KIMBO)

27 Dec 63
CURRENT INTELLIGENCE WEEKLY REVIEW
Page 3
TOP SECRET DINAR

13-00000

TOP SECRET DINAR

CHINA

NORTH
KOREA
Yalu
KIMCHAEK
CHONG SIN
SINCHANGNI
NAMSI
CHONGJU
SAMCHAM
SONDOK
FUKCHANGNI
PYONGNI
KOREA
SUNAN
JIMIRIANI
PyongyangPYONGYANG
ONCHON
HWANGJAS
KOKCHONGNI
YONAN
SAM site
Bomber elements
☑ Fighter defense elements
★Combined command headquarters
• Radar station
٠٢
▲ East coast filter center
Early warning radar coverage
TOP SECRET DINAR
27 DECEMBER 1963
MILES
34447
WONSAN
SEA OF TAPA
CHANG JON
•SINGYE
PYONGGANG
KAESONG
Seoul

100
QUELPART
ISLAND

SOUTH KOREA
TOP SECRET DINAR
TSUSHIMA

13-00000
TOP SECRET DINAR
The Communist World
NORTH KOREA IMPROVES AIR DEFENSE CAPABILITY
North Korea has recently
taken several steps which signif-
icantly strengthen its air de-
fenses. MIG-21 (Fishbed) jet
fighters, which were first de-
tected only at Pukchang-ni air-
field, now are being stationed
at other airfields. Pyongyang
has also apparently just acquired
a large number of relatively
sophisticated types of radar
sets. In addition, the North
Korean bomber force, which has
a total of about 100 IL-28
(Beagle) jet light bombers, is
in part now equipped with, and
has been training with, an im-
proved blind bombing and naviga-
tional system.
Testing of and flight train-
ing with the new fighters--10
to 14 of which were apparently
obtained from the USSR in the
fall of 1962--were first noted
in communications intelligence
in June 1963. Since that time
the MIG-21s have been detected
frequently in flight activity
involving ground controlled in-
tercept exercises.
Beginning in October, MIG-
21s have been noted operating
from Wonsan on the east coast
of North Korea. Their deploy-
ment to this airfield places
supersonic fighters on both the
east and west coasts of North
Korea.
The North Koreans have re-
cently expanded their radar
coverage. Six new types of
radar, at least one of which
is believed to be exclusively
of Chinese Communist manufacture,
have been detected. For the
present these radars will ap-
parently supplement rather than
replace North Korea's original
three types--Kniferest A, SCR-
270, and Token.
The identifiable new types
include Kniferest B, Spoonrest
A, and a new type of Chinese Com-
munist origin which is probably
a substantial modification of
the SCR-270. Spoonrest A is
sometimes used as the acquisi-
tion radar for surface-to-air
missile sites, but it is also
used in an early warning role
and is probably intended for that
use in North Korea. Acquisition
of these new radars reflects
North Korea's efforts to extend
the range of its early warning
detection system. To improve
height-finding capability, Pyong-
yang has also introduced more
sophisticated radars such as
Rockcake and Stonecake.
Another improvement in North
Korea's air capability is the
equipment of about twenty IL-28s
with an improved blind bombing
and navigational radar system des-
ignated Shorewalk. When properly
used, this system permits preci-
sion navigation and blind bombing
without the use of ground communi-
cations which would betray the di-
rection of the flight and the tar-
get designation. (TOP SECRET DINAR)

27 Dec 63
CURRENT INTELLIGENCE WEEKLY REVIEW
Page
4
TOP SECRET DINAR

13-00000
TOP SECRET DINAR
Southeast Asia
ENTHUSIASM FOR SOUTH VIETNAM REGIME FLAGGING
Communist guerrilla activ-
ity increased only slightly in
connection with the third anni-
versary, on 20 December, of the
Viet Cong's Liberation Front,
despite advance Communist proра-
ganda exhortation for a major
military effort. The Viet Cong
continued to direct attacks and
harassing activities primarily
at strategic hamlets.

South Vietnam's new govern-
ment is showing extreme sensi-
tivity to discussion of a "neu-
tralist solution" to its in-
surgency problem. The Communists'
Liberation Front has repeatedly
proposed such a settlement, and
the idea is gaining new advocates
as a result of Cambodia's call
for an international conference.
Saigon's military rulers last
week closed down a newspaper
which was expressing interest in
neutralism. However, editorials
in the vernacular press, even
though attacking neutralism, have
kept the debate in the public eye.
On 20 December, Saigon students--
possibly encouraged by the re-
gime--demonstrated against neu-
tralism.

On the military front, the
government is beginning to take
some steps to overcome the leth-
argy that has affected its coun-
terinsurgency effort since the
coup. A long-range pacification
program has been launched in one
of the most troublesome provinces
in the northern part of the coun-
try, and broad command changes
have been introduced in two prov-
inces south of Saigon where
security has been deteriorating.

In the political field,
the government has named 60
members of the civilian advisory
Council of Notables. Returned
exiles apparently are not rep-
resented, and there is a dearth
of direct provincial represen-
tation. Many appointees, how-
ever, are prominent political,
professional and lay religious
leaders who could provide effec-
tive guidance to the regime if
they are given a chance.

Apathy and disenchantment
over the new government are wide-
spread among such key elements
as middle-grade officers, stu-
dents and politicians. Criti-
cism centers on the lack of
firm direction by the ruling gen-
erals, on repeated reshuffling
of local officials deemed in-
competent, corrupt or close to
the Diem regime, and on the rise
in Viet Cong activity. There
are signs that junta members
themselves are beginning to share
the disillusionment of some cir-
cles with Premier Tho's provi-
sional cabinet, which is described
as ineffective and regional in
outlook.

Leading generals névertheless
seem to have few effective steps
in mind to rally popular support.
Three generals recently complained
to US officials that they were hav-
ing trouble finding qualified
Vietnamese to fill government posi-
tions and that press criticism
of their efforts was unhelpful.
General "Big" Minh, the chief of
state, has indicated a personal
distaste for a prominent role,
and has asserted that the people
would gradually come to appreciate
the new government as problems
were solved on a province-by-
province-basis. (SECRET NO FOR-
EIGN DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY)
27 Dec 63
CURRENT INTELLIGENCE WEEKLY REVIEW
Page 5
TOP SECRET DINAR

13-00000
LAOS
Ssumao
CHINA
Nam
Phong Saly
Hou
Dien Bien Phu
BURMA
Nam Tha
Muong Sai
Sam Neua
34435
Ban Houei Sai
Mekong
Sayaboury
Luang Prabang
P'aine
Ban Ban
Xieng
Jarres Khouang
Vang Vieng
13
Pak Sane
VIENTIANE
NORTH VIETNAM
Mekong
Kam
Keut
8
Lak
Sao
Nhommarath
HANOI
CHINA
GULF OF TONKIN
Vinh
(12)
Thakhek
12A
Ichepone
Savannakhet 9
SOUTH
VIETNAM
THAILAND
Road
Track or trai!
Railroad
STATUTE MILES 100
CAMBODIA
(23)
Saravane
Pakse
(23
CODE WORD MATERIAL ON REVERSE OF PAGE
Attopeu

13-00000
LAOS
TOP SECRET DINAR
Asia-Africa
Communist forces have
moved to erase recent gains
made by rightist units in cen-
tral Laos. Pathet Lao troops,
reportedly supported by sub-
stantial numbers of North Viet-
namese, on 19 December captured
Kam Keut and the nearby airfield,
three days after occupying the
key route junction at Lak Sao.
Right-wing messages have de-
scribed a key rightist parabattal-
ion as "completely smashed."
Communist units have advanced
south of Lak Sao toward neutral-
ist positions along Route 8-A,
but there have been no indica-
tions that they intend to press
their advantage by a major drive
on Nhommarath, which is still
held by rightist forces. In
other areas, there have been
reports of only limited activ-
ity, involving scattered skir-
mishes and artillery exchanges.

Meanwhile, neutralist and
Pathet Lao representatives are
continuing their efforts to
negotiate an easing of tensions
between the two factions. At
a meeting on 20 December in the
Plaine des Jarres, both sides
called for an "early" meeting
between Premier Souvanna and
Prince Souphannouvong. They
also agreed, in principle, that
elements of the coalition govern-
ment should be transferred from
Vientiane to the royal capital
at Luang Prabang, which would be
neutralized and placed under tri-
partite control. Both factions
reiterated their support for
the formation of a mixed police
force in a neutralized Vientiane.

General Phoumi's right-
wing faction, which was not
represented at the meeting,
remains skeptical of Pathet
Lao intentions. Phoumi apparently
believes that an agreement for
the neutralization of Luang
Prabang is unlikely, but he may
join in talks on the subject.
He has indicated, however, that
the neutralization of Vientiane
is contingent on the willingness
of the Pathet Lao to allow free
movement in areas of Laos now
under their control. (TOP SE-
CRET DINAR)

*
*
*
27 Dec 63
CURRENT INTELLIGENCE WEEKLY REVIEW
Page 6
TOP SECRET DINAR

13-00000
TOP SECRET DINAR
Asia-Africa
FRENCH CABINET MINISTER TO VISIT CAMBODIA
Armed Forces Minister-
Pierre Messmer's visit to Cam-
bodia from 4-7 January is de-
signed primarily to strengthen
French influence there in the
wake of Prince Sihanouk's call
for an end to the US aid pro-
gram. Messmer's high-level
entourage, which includes the
chiefs of the Foreign Ministry's
Indochina and Cultural and Tech-
nical divisions, will probably
recommend some increases in aid,
but De Gaulle apparently has
no intention of taking on any
large new commitments.

French-grant aid to Cam-
bodia since 1956 has amounted
to only $15 million. Current
assistance is threefold:
military training mission of at
least 250 men; cultural aid in
the form of a university mission
and 319 teachers in Cambodian
schools; and the maintenance of
about 40 experts in the fields
of health and public works. In
addition, a number of French
nationals hired by the Cambodian
Government hold positions of
considerable influence in the
Ministry of Finance, the Treas-
ury, and the premier's office,
and are among Prince Sihanouk's
advisers.

Paris has indicated it has
no intention of equaling the
US aid program. Any increase
in military aid probably would
be limited to reconditioned and
obsolete equipment, such as
trucks and light armored vehicles.
Increased cultural and technical
assistance probably would include
further help for the French uni-
versity mission, more teachers,
and 30 or 40 additional technical
experts, especially agricultural-
ists.

The extension of French aid
will be complicated by Cambodia's
claims for compensation for
losses incurred as a result of
the 1958 devaluation of the
French franc. Since 1958 France
has asserted that a large-scale
aid program would be impossi-
ble until there is agreement on
an exchange rate, but a compro-
mise may now be in sight.

Sihanouk has sought French
help in maintaining Cambodia's
policy of neutrality, and in
recent talks with the US and the
UK, France has supported his
call for an international con-
ference on Cambodian neutral-
ity, despite US objections.
Indeed, De Gaulle has consist-
ently sought to meet Sihanouk
more than half way, and Paris
may now encourage Sihanouk
to press this issue. (CON-
FIDENTIAL)
27 Dec 63
CURRENT INTELLIGENCE WEEKLY REVIEW
TOP SECRET DINAR
Page 7

13-00000

ISRAEL'S
JORDAN RIVER
DIVERSION PROJECT
-
Canal or conduit,
proposed or under construction
Demilitarized Zone
こと
LEBANON
ISRAEL
Haifa
¿Dead
NEGEV
DESERT
JORDAN
Mediterranean
Sea
Tel Aviv-Jaffa
GAZA
STRIP
NEGEV
DESERT
34446
Lituni
LEBANON
Pumping Station
(Under Construction)
Reservoirs
Tunnel
Tunnel
Tunnel ISRAEL
JORDAN
Jerusalem
DEAD
SEA
Husbani
Ranivts
SYRIA
Yarmak
STATUTE MILES
30
CODE WORD MATERIAL ON REVERSE OF PAGE

13-00000
TOP SECRET DINAR
Asia-Africa
ARABS PLAN NO OVERT ACTION AGAINST ISRAELI PROJECT
The Arab states evidently
do not plan any overt military
action against Israel when in
late January or early February
the Israelis begin pumping tests
for their Jordan River diversion
project, but sabotage of the
project's facilities may be at-
tempted.
The Arab military chiefs
who met in Cairo in mid-December
apparently decided that direct
military attacks are not feasi-
ble. The chiefs reportedly
agreed, however, that the states
bordering on Israel should
mount independent and uncoor-
dinated clandestine operations.
The Arab League Defense
Council, which meets in January,
probably will approve this rec-
ommendation, but its implementa -
tion is another matter. Egyp-
tian, Jordanian, and Lebanese
officials have indicated pri-
vately that their governments
have no intention of taking
aggressive action of any kind
against the Israeli project.
Nasir, however, told the
Canadian ambassador in early
December that he was worried
that Syria might act unilater-
ally and present the other Arab
states with a dilemma. Damascus
will be under strong pressure
to fulfill its threats against
the Israeli scheme, particularly
in view of the close proximity
of the Syrian border to Israel's
pumping station on Lake Tiberias.

Nasir's wariness about be-
coming involved in a war with
Israel over Jordan waters was
also evident in a speech he
made on 23 December. He empha -
sized that the problem is polit-
ical rather than military in
nature and that the chiefs of
staff cannot solve it. He
called for a summit meeting of
Arab presidents and kings to
seek a solution.

Israel, according to the
chief of Israeli military in-
telligence, considers there is
an outside possibility that
Syria might bomb or shell the
pumping facility's transformer
station. However, the Israelis
believe the primary threat stems
from former Palestinians now
living in Syria, Jordan or
Lebanon, who might make a dra-
matic effort to sabotage the
project even though they prob-
ably could not cause serious
damage. (SECRET NO FOREIGN
DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY)

*
27 Dec 63
CURRENT INTELLIGENCE WEEKLY REVIEW
Page 8
TOP SECRET DINAR

13-00000
TOP SECRET DINAR
Asia-Africa
CYPRUS DISPUTE FLARES AGAIN
Fighting between the Greek
and Turkish Cypriot communities,
which began on 21 December and
was continuing on 26 December
despite efforts to obtain a cease-
fire, is the culmination of a
steady growth of tension on the
island during the past few weeks.
The new tension followed Presi-
dent Makarios' presentation to
Turkish Cypriot leaders of propos-
als for changing the Cyprus con-
stitution. The proposals, which
essentially involved removing the
guarantees to the Turkish minor-
ity that had been written into
the Cyprus settlement of 1959,
were rejected by the Turkish Gov-
ernment even before the Turkish
Cypriots had made their views
known.

Most of the initial fight-
ing appears to have been between
Greek Cypriot police and the Turk-
ish underground, and to have taken
place in the Turkish areas of Nic-
osia.. The situation there de-
teriorated progressively during
the week, as the police lost con-
trol to extremist groups of ir-
regulars from both communities.
A cease-fire, to be supervised
by the British, had not been ef-
fective as of the morning of 26
December. Fighting had also con-
tinued at the port city of Lar-
naca; the rest of the island was
quiet but tense.
In the face of these de
velopments, the Turkish Govern-
ment threatened to exercise its
right under the 1959 agreement
to intervene on Cyprus. Three
Turkish jet fighters flew over
Nicosia on 25 December, and
Turkish naval units appeared off
the island. Part of the 650-man
Turkish garrison on Cyprus left
its barracks to move into one
of the Turkish quarters of the
capital. Part of the 950-man
Greek contingent then moved to
protect Greek areas. The situa-
tion evidently prodded Athens
and London into a more active
role, and Greek, Turkish and
British forces on Cyprus have
been placed under a unified Brit-
ish-led command. Britain has an-
nounced it is sending 150 ad-
ditional troops.

The violence may make lead-
ers of both sides more cautious
in pressing political demands.
Soon after the outbreak, Makarios
told the US ambassador he would
go more slowly in pushing his con-
stitutional revisions. Both eth-
nic groups, however, will be fur-
ther embittered--particularly
the Turkish community, which
is believed to have suffered
much the heavier casualties.
(CONFIDENTIAL)
27 Dec 63
CURRENT INTELLIGENCE WEEKLY REVIEW
Page 9
TOP SECRET DINAR

13-00000
TOP SECRET DINAR
Asia-Africa
AREA NOTE
Saudi Arabia: Crown Prince
Faysal appears to have weathered
his latest dispute with King
Saud without making any conces-
sions. The details of a new
arrangement between the two are
not known, but Faysal is still
firmly in control of the govern-
ment. Royal Guard elements
which the King ordered to posi-
tions around his palace at the
height of the dispute have now
been withdrawn.

The dispute centered on
Saud's attempt to resume per-
sonal control of the government,
which he relinquished to Faysal
a year ago when his health
broke. The immediate issues
were variously reported to have
been the new budget, which cuts
the
funds allotted to the royal
family, and Faysal's refusal
to give cabinet posts to two
of Saud's sons.

In blocking Saud's chal-
lenge, Faysal apparently was
supported by most of the im-
portant members of the royal
family. Throughout the crisis
the Saudi regular army remained
under the orders of the minis-
ter of defense, Prince Sultan,
a Faysal adherent. Some