2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
104-10012-10078
QUNCLASSIFIED
ONLY
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
ENTIAL
SECRET
SUBJECT: (Optional)
FROM:
Chief Far East Division
TO: (Officerdesignation, room number, and.
building)
EXTENSION NO.
FORWARDED
OFFICER'S
INITIALS:
DATE
20 Nov.68
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)
DATE
RECEIVED
Chief CI Staff 27 NOV 1968
CIRA
Mr. Dooley
27 NOV 1968
boo
for file
Document Number
येद
1128-988
for FOIA Review on SEP 1976
201-289248
FORM
3-62
610
USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED

UNCLASSIFIEDERAL CO DENTIAL
SUBJECT: (Optional)
FROM: CIRAIRS
2323
TO: (Officer designation, room number, and
building)
1.
IP/AN
2.
3.
4.
5.
JP/EDI
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
Document Number
for FOIA Review on
28/Flas
HP/RMS
12.
13.
ONLY
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
EXTENSION NO.
DATE
OFFICER'S
INITIALS
RECEIVED
FORWARDED
DATE
26 που. 68
XAAZ-35926
26 NOU 68-
SECRET
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)
@ Please asijo
XAAZ # and
os pay & Of
1128-988
SEP 1976
MAY
1978
clamifs to
201-289748
26.
Date: 2 NOV 68)
Salgent
Covesperelerce Cotisan
0%
CIA and ASIO.
Re: release
of exftinatun ly
Woven Commessen
14.
15.
FORM
3-62
D
610
USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED

SECRET
20 NOV 1968
KEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence
VIA
SUBJECT
Deputy Director for Plane
304635
Executive Registry
68-516011
XAAZ-
35926
Letter for Direstor from Bir Charles Spry (ASIO)
1. Attached is a scaled letter fron Sir Charles Spry,
Director General of the Australian Security Intelligenco
Organization (who provided a copy of the letter to the Chief
of Station, Heibourne), and a suggested reply for your
signature.
2. Bir Charles' letter to you recommends again好家
doclassification of the Farrea Comaission document CD-971,
which refers to our investigation of anonymous telephone
calls to the Canberra Babassy before and after the
amcassination of President Kennedy.
3. I consider the points made by Bir Charles in his
letter to be valid and accordingly recommend against the
decisosification of CD-971 in the foreseeable fature
Staff concurs with this recommendation.
Document Number 1128-988
for FOLA Review on SEP 1976
4. Naison
William E. Nelson
of
K
P/ERI
Chief, Far East Division
Attachments, 5
130/900
A.
Letter from Sir Charles Spry
PROCARE FOR THAUNG
575 40. (2.3.4)
AVGAT REST, CODE
CABLE ICON (11)
(4)
B.
Letter Replying to Sir Charles Spry
P/FRES
FOR FILING
C. FAMA 5008, subject: Declassification of Warreh
Commission Document CD-971-
D.
Copy of CD-971
E. FAMW 3636, subject: Request for Release of Warren
Commission Document
20: DOCI
DDP/FE/PMI/AN: Amos Taylor, Jrl:arc (19) November 1968)
Distribution
Orig & 1
-
Addressee
1 DDCI
-
2
-
1
DDP
ADDP
RECORD COPY
-
1
1
1
-
1
-
GEODET
C/CI Staff
CFE
CFE/PMI
wanatic
...and
neslassification
CFE/PMI/AN
26 που 68
201-289248
