14-00000

104-10175-10176
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

19 AUG 1964

TO	:	Director
			Federal Bureau of Investigation
			Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich
FROM	:	Deputy Director for Plans
SUBJECT:	Lyle STUART

Reference is made to your memorandum dated 1 June 1964,
in which you provided this office with several questions you
wished to have passed to Miss Viola June COBB regarding
Lyle STUART. There follows the information provided by
Do your inquiry:

1. Regarding Lyle STUART, Juan Jose AREVALO, and
Antikomunismo en America Latina:

Early in the spring of 1962, in Mexico, AREVALO told
me that STUART was prodding him about getting another of his
books translated, to take advantage of the publicity around
The Shark and the Sardines. I was already far beyond
speaking terms with SI ALT and therefore declined to have
anything further to do with him. About three months later,
AREVALO told me that STUART was going to publish
Antikomunismo en America Latina and that a young American
student, married to a Hexican, Angela delli SANTE ARROCHA
(who had written Arevalo, pensador contemporanco, published
by Coste Amic, 1962, financed by Als Badical Revolucionario
de El Salvador) was doing the translation into English.
Early in 1963, AREVALO told me that the translation hadn't
been satisfactory and therefore STUART had obtained a re-
translation, by Charleton BEALS.

When STUART was here in Mexico in June, he told
Dr. OSTGUEDA that he was very happy about the way the book
was selling.

Inasmuch as STUART has paid AREVALO only 10 per cent
of moneys received by STUART on The Shark and the Sardinen
sales (in contrast with some book contracts in which the author
receives 10 per cent of the money represented by number of
copies sold multiplied by the retail sales price) I would
assume he is no more generous with Antikomunismo.

CS COPY
SECRET
201-2788444
14-00000

I know of no affiliations of STUART with foreign
political parties of government. His attempts to get close
to Fidel CASTRO in 1960 were motivated by a desire to exploit
the journalistic advantages of an interview. His original
interest in The Shark and the Sardines was apparently
motivated by money-making interests and by the hope that
he might spark a sensation - exactly what he did manage to
do with his outrageous advertising. He seemed to calculate
that there might be libel suits possible against the firms
and the newspapers he could provoke to attack him.

The original contract of AREVALO with STUART was
superseded by another in November of 1961, granting STUART
certain rights with regard to other foreign language editions
of The Shark and the Sardines and, I believe, establishing
hold here firat antion on other ARKVALO books
translated into English.

Information about STUART's dealings with AREVALO
and whatever others, could be obtained (with cutie) from
Eileen BRANT, who was his editor at the time of the firet
contact with AREVALO. She subsequently broke with him
because of deep and bitter resentment against him, then
returned not too long ago to collaborate with him. She is
his wife's sister. She is certainly working with him nov
only because he finally offered her a little better pay. For
her to have changed her mind about him would be almost
impossible, I believe, in view of the long history of incidents
that had brought her to have contempt for him, at the time
I knew her ia 1961. She knows his operation inside-out.
In order to get information from her, it would be absolutely
necessary to approach her from some angle that would give
no hint of government investigation. She is very gregarious.
She is a fortyish medium-attractive, lonely, New York single
woman (unless her status has changed since I knew her).
If
contacted by somebody she would assume to be a writer, and
who would be a bit friendly with her and see her off-bours,
she would probably talk freely about STUART. But she is
quite clever and rather worldly in some respects, so that must
be kept in mind in case she is contacted. SHE HAS A VERY
DEEP AND LONGTINE NEGATIVE ATTITUDE TOWARD ALL GOVERNMENT
AGENCIES INVOLVED IN INVESTIGATION. She was active in
liberal activities in Chicago, and if I remember correctly,
although she is certainly not communist, she considered bersed
a little jeopardised by the Ec Carthy period.

Angela Dell1 SANTE-ARROCHE could also be contacted,
of course.
SECRET

--
14-00000

2. Regarding Lyle STUART, Dr. Baul CarcUKDA, Bartolome
COSTA Amic, and Mario ΕΟΝΤΣΤΟΡΓΗ Toledo:

Dr. OSEGUEDA apparently has had a secret longing to
get something of his ove printed in English. Ee seized upon
the opportunity of commenting BKALS' introduction to
Antikomunismo in order to write to STUART this spring.
STUART wrote very cordially back to OSEGUEDA, hoping to ment
Lim on a trip to Mexico in June. When OSEGLEDA confessed to
ne his correspondence with STUART, he sought to make me see
it as an attempt to speak with STUART about the royalties
STUART has never paid me.

When Dr. CSEGUEDA finally did see STUART here in
Mexico during the book congress in June, he only very
timidly and very, very briefly touched upon the royalty
wwohlen, and indeed went to a great deal of trouble to serve
STUART by introducing to
MONTEFORTE Toledo. (STUART had expressed interest ta
getting in touch with some publishers and writers.) CEZGUEDA
buntled about, taking OSEGUEDA and MONTEFORTE Toledo to lunch
with STUART, even managed to get the MONTEFORTE Toledos to
invite STUART to dinner at their apartment. There were
tentative discussions of collaborating in the distribution of
COSTA Amic books in the United States and of publishing
come book of MONTEFORTE Toledo's.

However, both COSTA Anic and the MONTEFORTE Toledos
told me that they found STUART offensively vulgar and were not
at ali enthusiastic about having anything to do with him.

Two weeks ago, OSEGUNDA sketched the outline of a
book (contemporary history of 1.3. and Latin American relations)
he hopes STUART will want to publish, and sent the outline
Pup to him.
:

:
CECI-316/00789-64
WH/1/C. Bustos:chk
Distribution:
Orig. & 1	-	Addressee
1	- RI (201-278841)
1 - CI/LIA
1- CI/R&A
1-WH/1
1- WH/PO/A
:
18 August 1964

BASIC:	ΗΜΜΑ 24092

PROJECT: NONE

LIAISON: NONE

SECRET
201-
:
14-00000

TO	• DIRECTOR
FROM	MEXIOC CITY
ACTION: WH
INFO	VR

SECRSET1416432
DIR CITA MEXI 0582
LICOOKY
REF A. DIR 40439
B.

HA1812041
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
33
SECRET
ROUTING
1	4
2	5
3	6

14. AUS DIN 51668
LICOOXY/I ANSWERS TO REF B SENT IN HMMA 24392 ON 11 AUG.
SECRET

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHISITED
C
Copy No.
14-00000
13

INFO
FROM
DISPATCH

Chief, WE Division
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

SUSECK
Chief of Station, Mexico City
Answers to Inquiries Submitted in Reference
ACTICANJIRED - REFERENCES
Ref: HMG 12041

PROCESSING ACON
WAREED FOR INDEXING

BO BRODXONG REQUIRED
EMILY QUIALIFIED DESE
CAR JUDGE DIADEXINS

SCROFILM
Forwarded herewith are answers to the inquiries forvarded in reference
dispatch submitted by subject of 201-278341 on 6 July 1964.

Attachment:
As stated above
Malard C. CURTIS
Distribution:
13C/WHD v/att

CS COPY

20
CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND RELUMBER
Exarte: .
ΗΜΙΑ 24092

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
201-278841
DATE
11 August 1964

PFCS FLERABE
201-278841

i
14-00000

SEGRET

July 6, 1964

LYLE STUART
AREVALO
"ANTIKOMUSISMO EN AMERICA LATINA"

Early in the spring of 1962, here in Mexico, Arévalo told me that Stuart
was prodding him about getting another of his books translated, to take ad-
vantage of the publicity around "The Shark and the Sardines". I was already
far beyond speaking ceras with Stuart and therefore declined to have anything
further to do with hin. About three months later, Arévalo told me that Smart
was going to publien "Antikomunismo en America Latina and that a young American
student, married to a Mexican, Angela delli Sante Arrocha (who had written
"Arevalo, Fensador Contemporaneo"; vas doing the translation into English.
Early in 1963, Arévalo told me that the translation hadn't been satisfactory
and therefore Stuart had obtained a re-translation, by Charleton Beals.

When Stuart was here in Mexico in June, he told Dr. Osequeda that he was
very happy about the wey the bock was selling.

Inasmuch as Stuart has paid Arévalo only 10 percent of moneys received by
Stuart on "The Shark and the Sardines" sales (in contrast with some book con-
tracts in which the author receives 1.0 percent of the money represented by
number of copies sold multiplied by the retail sales price) I would assume he
is no more generous with "Antikomunismo". I can ask Dr. Osegueda the exact
teres, but I haven't been able to see Osegueda this week.

I know of no affiliations of Stuart with foreign political parties of
government. His attempts to get close to Fidel Castro in 1960 were motivated
by a desire to expicit the journalistic advantages of an interview. Ris
original interest in "The Shark and the Sardines" vas. apparently motivated by
money-making interest and by the hope that he might spark a sensation - exactly-
what he did manage to do with his outrageous advertising. He seemed to calcu-
late that there might be libel sxits possible against the firms and the news-
papers he could provoke to attack him.

I am sure you have it on file, but I will enclose a copy of Arevalo's
original contract with Stuart. It was superceded by another in November of
1961, granting Stuart certain rights with regard to other foreign language
editions of "The Shark and the Sardines" and, I believe, establishing that
Stuart should have first option of other Arévalo books translated into English.

Information about Stuart's dealings with Arévalo and whatever others could
be obtained WITH GULLE from Eileen Brant, who vas his editor at the time of the
:
*
Published by Costa Amic, 1962. Financed by Als Radical Revolucionario de El
Salvador.

ES COPY
SECRET
66221
Εκελεστά ίσεπ επτε
deviasticam
ad to Hmm A24072
201-278841
14-00000
:
2-

SECRET
first contact with Arevalo, subsequently broke with his because of deep and
bitter resentment against him, then returned not too long ago to collaborate
with him. She is his wife's sister. She is certainly working with him now
only because he finally offered her a little bette: pay. For her to have
changed her mind about him would be almost impossible, I believe, in view of
the long history of incidents that had brought her to have contempt for him,
at the time I knew her in 1961. She knows his operation inside-out. In order
to get information from her, it would be absolutely necessary to approach her
from some angle that would give no hint of government investigation. She is
very gregarious. She is a fortyish medium-attractive, lonely, New York single
woman (unless her status has changed since I knew her). By somebody she would
assume to be a writer, and who would be a bit friendly with her and see her
off-hours, she would probably talk freely about Stuart. But she is quite clever
and rather worily in some respects, so that must be kept in mind in case she
is contacted. SHE HAS A VERY DEEP AND LONGTIME NEGATIVE ATTITUDE TOWARD ALL
GOVERNMENT AGENCIES INVOLVED IN INVESTIGATION. She was active in liberal
activities in unicago, actly, thich cho da containiv
not communist, she considered herself a little jeopardized by the Mc Carthy
period.

Angela Deli Sante-Arroche could be contacted, too, of course.
look for her address at Costa Amic's office and pass it along.
I vill

SECRET
Excladestra
CAP 1
ער
LDE
dectas
e
14-00000

SELE
June 6, 1964

Lyle Stuart
Dr. Raul Osegueda
Eartolome Costa Amic
Mario Monteforte Toledo

Dr. Osegueda apparently has had a secret longing to get something of his
own printed in English. He seized upon the opportunity of commenting beals'
introduction to "Antikomunismo" in crier to write to Stuart this spring. Stuart
wrote very cordially back to Osegueda, hoping to meet him on a trip to Mexico
in June. When Osegueda confessed to ze his correspondence with Stuart, he
sought to make me see it as an attempt to speak with Stuart about the royalties
Stuart has rever paid me.

When Osegueda finally did see Stuart here during the book congress in June,
he only very timidly and very, very briefly touched upon the royalty problem, and
indeed went to a great deal of trouble to serve Stuart by introducing him to
Costa Amic and to Mario Monteforte Toledo. (Stuart had expressed interest in
getting in touch with some publishers and writers.) Osegueda bustlei abait,
taking Osegueda and Monteforte Toledo to lunch with Stuart, even managed to get
the Monteforte Toledos to invite Stuart to dinner at their apartment. There
vere tentative discussions of collaborating in the distribution of Costa Amic
books in the United States and of publishing some book of Monteforte Toledo's.

However, both Costa Amica and the Monteforte Toledos told me that they
found Stuart offensively vulgar and were not at all enthusiastic about having
anything to do with him.

Two weeks ago, Osegueda sketched the outline of a book (contemporary history
of U.S. and Latin American relations) he hopes Stuart will want to publish, and
sent the outline up to him.

SECRET
all 2 to HMMA24092
1
Excited as "
UR1
бесігі
201-278841
14-00000

DATE: C. Bustos
UNIT WH/1
EXT 4506
DATE: 5 AUGUST 1964

TO MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR
CONFW H B

INFO
VR
TO
MEXI
LICOOKY

REF: HMMW-12641*
MESSAGE FORM
33
INDEX
SECRET
2
NO INDEX
3
FILE IN CS FILE NO

ROUTING
5
6
1
7
D
8
6 EUGEN 2302
SIG CEN

INFO.
CITE DIR
40489
PLEASE ADVISE.

END OF MESSAGE

WH COMMENT: #FBI requested that certam questions be given to LICOOKY
by us concerning Juan Jose Arevalo and Lyle Stuart, and the
book Shark and the Sardines. Justice is thinking of
prosecuting Stuart.

DESMOND FITZGERALD
C/WHD

COOKY-1
My of
W. J.KAUFMAN
C/WH/1
3
2
1

RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OPPIGEO
SECRET
01OUP!
lashded bons cutomarle
downgrading and
عمالمو المواعدة
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
AUTHENTICATIGO
OFFICER
Copy Nin
:
14-00000

TO : DIRECTOR
FROM : MEXICO CITY
ACTION 8
INFO 1 :
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
24 SECRET
ROUTING
4
5
161
CI, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, FI, SR 7, VR

file

LICOOKYHE
SECRET 2322417
DIR INFO MANA GUAT TEGU SALV CITE MEXI 3449
1464 IN 41824
REF SJCS 6916 (139629)
i
:.
CLICOURT-I SPENT SEVERAL nouns COMPANY MARIO SUSA
AVARRO AND DIANA GAMES. LATTER IS HONDURAN AND FIANCE HONDURAN
COMME RODIL RIVERA RODIL. GAMES HOW DIVORCING, MEXICAN DIPLOMAT WHO
PREVIOUSLY SERVED TEGU AND PLANS MARRY RIVERA.

2. ACC L-1, WHEN ISABEL. GUILLEN DE ZELAYA, AT WHOSE HOUSE L-1 AND
SOSA HET, ACCUSED SOSA OF BEING A "RUSO" LATIER MADE MILDLY DEROGATORY
REMARKS ABOUT SOVIET UNION. SAID HIS WIFE AND SMALL SON IN GUAT
AND WIFE NOW DIVORCING HIM.

3. L-1 INSTRUCTED MAINTAIN CASUAL CONTACT SOSA IN ORDER KEEP
TABS HIS WHEREABOUTS.
SECRET

C/S COMENT: MARIO SOSA NAVARRO ARRIVED IN SAN JOSE 22 JULY.

SECRET
GACI
Raduded from
doungrading a

..
14-00000

TO	• DIRECTOR
FROM	2
MEXICO CITY
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
24
SECRET
File: Wie Licooly!!
2
31
Fule
ROUTING
41
5
16

ACTION: WH 8

INFO	• SRT, CI, CI/OPS, CI/ICZ, CI/OA, FI, VR

SECRET 0317592
DIR CITE MEXI 0444
REDCOAT LC LY PROVE

REF A DIR 39266
B MEXI 9796 (IN 01559).
13 Aug 64 IN 41779

1. APPRECIATE A APPROVAL USE LICOCKY-1 AGAINST KUKHAR EN KO.
HOWEVER HAVE RECENTLY LEARNED FROM LIENVOY AND SUEJ REF B (REQUEST
CRYPTO) THAT X DEPARTING EARLY AUG HOME LEAVE. WILL TRY INJECT
L-1 AFTER K'S RETURN.

2. REPORTING BY DISPATCH SUB
EREX B. RECENT NEGOTIATIONS
F
WITH X EXCHANGE VODKA FOR TRANSISTOR RADIOS.
SECRET

C/S COMMENT: LICOOKY-1 OA AMENDED PERMIT HER USE TO
DEVELOP AND ASSES KUNHA RENKO.

SECRET
CACUP
Eacided to g
६
RIG: Terry Ward
UNIT :W!!/1
εχτ 4506
¡DATE: 31 JULY 1964

TO MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR
CONE WHB
INDE 27 J-ECRET
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO. 201-260831

5
6
7
3
8
31 Jал. 64 22 012
SIG GEN
Wo JRJ. CI, CI/OPS, F1, VR, CI/OA, CI/C
INFO

TO MEXI
REDCOAT LCIMPROVE

INFO
REF: MEXI 0306 (IN 30508)*
CITE DER
392667

LICOOKY-1 OA AMENDED PERMIT HER USE TO DEVELOP AND ASSESS
KUKHARENKO. SHOULD NOT BE USED MAKE RECRUITMENT SINCE NOT EXPERIENCED
RECRUITER, FAILURE WOULD COMPLETELY BLUR. HER TO SOS OSCE CO
RELATIONSHIP WITH LINLUCK KNOWN, COULD BE UNFAVORABLE BLOWBACK ON
LINLUCK.

SINCE SO'S COULD PRESUMABLY COME IN CONTACT MIH LINLUCK
THROUGH LICOOKY-1, STATION MAY CONSIDER TIPPING OFF LINLUCK AT OPPORTUNE
TIME TO BE CAREFUL OF LICOOKY-1'S DOINGS AS CONTINUING STATION P
INVESTIGATION OF HER DISCLOSES SHE ASSOCIATING WITH SOVS.
END OF MESSAGE

WH COMMENT: *Requested permission use LICOOKY-1 to develop high
priority SOV target.

CI/ICG/Burke (in draft)
CI/OA/Lally (in draft)

SR/O/WH Kasparovich Draft
30
ly phone

DESMOND FITZGERALD
C/WHD
WH/POA/Priest
Prizet
5
W. J. KAUPMAN
C/WH/1
3
2
1

RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
GROUP 1
Enchatod a
drungrading and
