104-10241-10250 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
F 68271.

COMFIDENTIAL
COAG
110273

A. On March 31, 1962, P.H. KOETRLOCK, Residence, 3110273.
Richmond, Virginia, (hereafter KOETRLOCK), advised that he had met
CHARLES about two weeks ago at a luncheon at the Jefferson Hotel,
Richmond, which luncheon was attended by approximately 10-12 local
business men. KOETRLOCK stated that CHARLES was the first person he
had met who openly expressed an opinion that President Kennedy should
be assassinated. CHARLES went on to state that President Kennedy was
a communist and an "obstacle in the way to the nation's well-being."
KOETRLOCK advised that because of CHARLES' comments, he paid parti-
cular attention to him at the luncheon and afterwards was introduced to
CHARLES.

B. On 1 May 62, KOETRLOCK advised that CHARLES was speaking at
the Thomas Jefferson Hotel, Richmond, Virginia, at a meeting sponsored
by the Daughters of the American Revolution. KOETRLOCK is considered
to be by the source of contact to Richmond Police. KOETRLOCK states that
CHARLES is an excellent speaker and is very effective. KOETRLOCK advised
that General WALKER (possibly EDWIN WALKER) may be the next speaker.
KOETRLOCK stated that the D.A.R. meeting on 1 May 62 would be attended
by approximately 250 people from the eastern part of the U. S. KOETRLOCK
advised that during the luncheon discussion, CHARLES stated that he was
originally from Virginia and that he (CHARLES) was not able to obtain a frame
for the American flag which was burned in Cuba. CHARLES further told
KOETRLOCK that he would attempt to contact the local chapter of the
Intelligence Service, which office, as far as CHARLES could ascertain,
did not wish to accept monetary contributions and were reluctant to accept
material. KOETRLOCK did not elaborate on the details surrounding burning
the flag. (Referred to FBI, Richmond). (Captioned Richmond).

C. P.H.KOETRLOCK, Richmond, advised that he has first hand know-
ledge that KOETRLOCK'S wife is in contact with several people on the
Richmond News Leader who are communist. KOETRLOCK stated his wife is
associated with a group in Richmond who are political extremists as
well. KOETRLOCK pays close attention to any news story his wife reads.
KOETRLOCK made the statement in an attempt to show that he is politically
and morally on both sides of the fence and is, in that sense, a good contact
for the FBI. KOETRLOCK stated that on several occasions he listened to
President Kennedy and realized that once he (the President) came to cross
the "line" of constitutional theory, there would be no turning back and his
(President Kennedy's) days were numbered.

Continuation
Chi 110273

-2-
COMMENT: Richmond Office.

Summary: Source of Contact, Richmond, Carolina (noted out
stated that CHARLES might speak to
A. Richmond Office
4/16/62 for the original
to Richmond for appropriate action
information and the Richmond office advised that the
on this individual could not be disseminated to outsiders.

D. On 2 May 62, KOETRLOCK telephoned to advise that he had a
conversation with Mrs. KASTELOCK who said that she was attending the
Political Forum sponsored by the Daughters of American Revolution at
the Thomas Jefferson Hotel, Richmond, that day and at that function
KOETRLOCK could be introduced to Mr. CHARLES and his wife. KOETRLOCK
stated that he would like to meet CHARLES as soon as possible (with
Richmond assistance, if possible), and that he would advise the Richmond
office of the details of the circumstances.

E. On 2 May 62, Mrs. KASTELOCK, advised that she was unable to arrange
an introduction to CHARLES. KOETRLOCK went to the Thomas Jefferson
Hotel, Richmond. Mrs. KASTELOCK had been contacted to determine if she
still desired to meet CHARLES, and KOETRLOCK stated that she did. KOETRLOCK
is submitting a summary continuance to establish KOETRLOCK'S motivation in
Washington. KOETRLOCK feels that the fact that CHARLES might speak with the
State Government Projects Caucus on the subject of "Subversive Activities in the
Radio and Television Industries," justifies submitting summary information to
Washington. A check with the files revealed that the FBI had contacted
CHARLES sometime in March, at the request of the House Un-American Activities
Committee, and that, as of the night before, on 2 May, a meeting to watch
"Meet The Press," that afternoon may have taken place. KASTELOCK stated
that after she returned to Richmond from Washington, she would be on
constant contact on that day and that arrangements could then be made for the
meeting place on 2 May. KASTELOCK advised that he had spoken to KASTELOCK
this morning and that KASTELOCK had called KASTELOCK and stated that KOETR-
LOCK should consider attending the conference in order to confirm whether or not
CHARLES would be speaking at the conference and that at 2:00 o'clock Mrs.
KASTELOCK would have to go to church, and from there she would be calling
KASTELOCK at approximately 5:00 P.M. from the church. KOETRLOCK advised
that this morning KOETRLOCK was unable to ascertain at what time during
the course of conference CHARLES and others attending could be contacted.
KOETRLOCK stated that his main interest was that since all representatives
of U.A.A.C. will be assembled for the conference at the Hotel, KOETRLOCK'S
representatives of U.A.A.C. should contact CHARLES. KOETRLOCK added that
KASTELOCK continued that KOETRLOCK had previously contacted the representative
of Atlantic Life Insurance, and has started what is known as the "Red Letter
Movement" (considered the letter and returned with a "read" letter).
As of afternoon 1 May, Mrs. KASTELOCK had not telephoned as she had

indicated, and KOETRLOCK believes that this had been caused primarily by incidents in the
Washington forum which she could not immediately disclose and requested
that continue emergency basis.
CONFIDENTIAL

-3-

COMMENT: Richmond Office.

7. KASTELOCK advised that in the course of the Thomas Jefferson Charity
Foundation matter, A. J. HODGES had attempted to interest KASTELOCK in
selling insurance to members of the Klu Klux Klan. It appears the KKK is
interested in a life insurance policy to cover KKK funeral expenses. KASTELOCK
advised that it was his personal opinion that the KKK and other organization
of that nature are being used for personal gain by individuals. KASTELOCK
advised that several individuals who previously worked for the FBI have
stated to KASTELOCK that the members of the Klan will not disclose information
regarding KKK activities to anyone. KASTELOCK advised that if HODGES
succeeds in selling life insurance to Klansmen, he (HODGES) intends to disclose
that information to KASTELOCK as part of the continuing investigation of
the Thomas Jefferson Charity Foundation. It is of interest to note that
KASTELOCK stated that HODGES continues to be evasive concerning his intentions.
The Richmond office feels that it might have a source of value. KASTELOCK has
stated that at times when dealing with KASTELOCK, KASTELOCK'S activities have
resulted in the source developing information on certain other individual.
KASTELOCK advised that he is attempting to work with FBI sources in Richmond
and that they are attempting to run away with his information in regard to
CHARLES.

8. Both CHARLES and KOETRLOCK made certain remarks to someone
regarding President Kennedy and the White House. KOETRLOCK'S remarks are
that CHARLES was a paranoid individual (KOETRLOCK said as much) and that the
White House could never be in the hands of Kennedy. KOETRLOCK, who works
for the U. S. Treasury, stated that the CHARLES remarks warranted an im-
mediate writing for guidance.

9. In the course of the KOETRLOCK conversation, Charles had
mentioned to KOETRLOCK that he (CHARLES) had at one time been connected
with a certain GARY DECKER. (It is to be noted that GARY DECKER is the
individual who was involved in GARY POWERS Case.)
stated that KASTELOCK in talking to CHARLES stated that CHARLES had mentioned the
Baltic Fleet and could not elaborate further other than the United States
Government was interested by CHARLES's comments regarding the Baltic Fleet.
KOETRLOCK stated that in regard to the KOETRLOCK comments, he (KASTELOCK)
at one time involved in several fairly criminal activity, but in effect, he
(KOETRLOCK) felt he could possibly work with CHARLES or any individual
that may be interested in CHARLES which would continue further contact with
CHARLES.

10. KASTELOCK stated that with KOETRLOCK's aid he determined that as
a result of his meeting with CHARLES, that KOETRLOCK feels that he can
and will work to contact him. KASTELOCK feels that we should determine
whether to work with KOETRLOCK or which of the individuals should continue
conversations on personality as possible.

-4-

11. Source (KOETRLOCK) in conversation called on 7 May to determine
comments made by CHARLES in conversation. KOETRLOCK indicated that during
the course of conversation he noted to CHARLES the possibility of the U.S.
Government making an investigation of him for his comments concerning the
President. CHARLES commented that he did not mind if the U.S. Government
investigated his background.

12. On 8 May the Richmond office determined to advise that any additional
formulation of information on the CHARLES and KOETRLOCK will be submitted to
Washington, in addition to the emergency nature involved. CHARLES stated that
KOETRLOCK'S conversation on the 11th of April and prior to the meeting
with KOETRLOCK that if any further comments was made or came to light
he would give that information. KOETRLOCK indicated that he has decided to
continue to contact CHARLES. KOETRLOCK did not say that he will continue that
personably involved as a minimum to continue to obtain the source.

Distribution:
Copy - Wash.
1 - Richmond (captioned)
1 - Report (Bureau)
1 - S. Files
1 - Index (Central)
1 - Insp/Field Check
22/4jra
