104-10162-10107
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED
INTERNAL ONLY
CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
SUBJECT: (Optional) 03
FROM: WH/4/Prop

NO.
DATE: 13 January 1961

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building) | DATE RECEIVED | OFFICER'S INITIALS | DATE FORWARDED | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from hom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment)
---|---|---|---|---
1. C/M/L/CI | | nua | |
2. WH/HID/4 | | | |
3. | | | |
4. MT. Thorpe | | Pes zee hue | |

5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

FORM 610 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS
SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/4
SECRET

IB MEMO NO. 5269
10 January 1961

ATTENTION: Mr. Lou Napoli
SUBJECT: Transmittal of Documentation for use of Manuel Artime y Buesa
REFERENCE: Memo from WH/4, 27 December 1960

1. This is to confirm that the following Cuban documentation was handcarried on 9 January 1961 by Mr. Stanley Shultz as requested in reference:
 a. Passport No. 17130
 b. Vigencia (Exit Permit) JL-11041-H
 c. International Certificate of Vaccination

2. The Cuban Passport contains a U.S. Non-Immigrant Visa, B-2, issued in Santiago de Cuba on 17 May 1960 and is valid until 17 May 1964. (The Miami Admitted Cachet and Arrival-Departure Record 1-94 were provided by I&NS and are "backstopped". You will note that 1-94 form shows that subject was admitted to the U.S. on 16 June 1960 and has a valid extension of stay until March 15, 1961.

3. It is our understanding that subject will leave the U.S. "black" but will carry the above listed documentation. The documentation should be returned to TSD/IB when no longer needed for operational purposes.

CHARLES YECH, JR.
CHIEF, TSD/IB

Distribution:
Original and 1- Addressee.

SECRET
