14-00000
104-10179-10104

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
_ SECRET

PROCESSING

INFO
ACTION

TO
Chief, Task Force W

ACTION REQUIRED

FROM
Chief, JMWAVE

SUBJECT
GYROSE/AMCONCERT-1
Report on Cira MARTINEZ

ACTION REQUIRED: FYI

REFERENCES

ATTACHED HEREWITH IS AN ANCONCERT-1 REPORT ON Cira MARTINEZ, A CONFIDANTE OF MANUEL RAY.

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

END OF DISPATCH

Attachment:
h/w Copies of report (2)

Distribution:
3-Headquarters w/att.

CROSS REFERENCE TO

SECURITY INFORMATION

CLASSWA
SECRET

DATE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHED
NOV 6 1962

GUN NUMBER
HEADQUARTERS FILE

19-120-33

14-00000

Hlwald & LIFEA-6468

cccc 110, S Oct 62

REPORTTIG ACET:スカパンナート
1:10

SUBJECT: Cira MARTINEZ, sia: "Cirita", vas closely connected το Manuel RAY.

SOURCE: Karta DIEZ Rivas, Married to Dr. Ricardo KACHIN. Has connect
in Havana with verious anti-Communist organizations.

On a visit I made to source, she told me that she had met Mrs.
Cira MARTINEZ in Havana. That Mrs. MARTINEZ used the clandestine
pacudonym "Josefina" and was married to architect Frank MARTINEZ.
That both subject and her husband were persons in the absolute
confidence of engineer Manuel RAY, and "Josefina" had been RAY's
secretary for a long time.

Source claims to have learned from "Josefina" that she was
dissatisfied with RAY's political actions, to the extent that RAY
wanted her to join the executive of the organization J.U.R.E. but she
had refused because she did not agree with the/ of this
organization. That "Josefina" had described this organization as
a political movement the same as Castroism, only changing the name
of the leader. That the knows the plan of this organization is to
organizo all anti-BATICTA and anti-CASTRO organizations, under the
direction of the J.U.R.E., and develop a nationalistic and copecially
an anti-American policy in order to be able to group all the elements
existing in Cuba that have not figured prominently in the CASTRO
regime. After the fall of the CASTRO rogine they plan to form a
strong political party in Cuba and capitalize on the mistakos committed
by the provisional Covernment. With this objective in mind, they will
stay separated from the C.R.O. and from all relations with the U.S.
Government in order to be able to carry out their plan freely.

Mrs. Cira MARTINEZ lives with her husband at 1004 NE 17th St.,
Miami, phone umber PL-C-0483 on which they talk to many persons
related with RAY's plan.

NOTE: One of RAY's most trusted leaders in Miami is still Osorio
DAVILA, former treasurer of the 26th of July Movement and man in the
absolute confidence of Haydos SANTECIA, For a long time DAVILA was
the Chief of the Havena Immigration Department, until he came to the
U.S. by boat from the coast of Kansas. Some days ago I cubmitted a
detailed report on Osorio DAVILA, and also on Cremos and many other

14-00000

8 Oct 62, subjs Cira MARTINEZ (cont.)
own leaders of J.U.R.E., because there is another group of
individuals whose nomes are not advertised but who have command powers
in the J.U.R.E. One of these men is Ignacio LIDON, former leader of
the 25th of July Kovement, private secretary of the Commissioner of
Havana Jose LLALUSA, and G-2 delegate in Havana City Hall. LIDON
persecuted many persons in the City Hall because he was the one who
made the licts of persons who should be watched, to the G-2. He also
had close connections with the Minister of the Interior, Jose A.
NARANJO, whom he kept informed about the persons under cuspicion who
worked in the Ministry of the Interior. One time LIDON visited KARANJO
and informed him, in the presence of KARANJO's secretary, Lucy
ICHEVERRIA, that he should keep Captain Samon PADILLA, at that time
Chief of the Isle of Pines prison, under surveillance. In 1960 PADILLA
was preparing the escape of Captain Jorge SORUS, and thanks to Lucy'в
werning PADILLA took precautions and the plan could be carried out.
Ignacio LIDON lives in Miami but I don't know his home address.
Although he inter declared himself ca cati-comunist, and I think he
sought asylum in the Brasilien Embassy, I have no trust in him at all.

14-00000

SEORIST

On Sunday, October 28, I met twice with Manolo RAY of the Movimiento
Revolucionario del Pueblo (MRP) at the San Juan Intercontinental Hotel, in
San Juan, Puerto Rico. My main objectives weres (1) to elicit from
a a
list of Cubans, presently associated with the Castro regime, who are
critical of Castro and might be considered potential defectors; (2) to
amin a list of Jubans, either inside or outside the island, who could be
available, in case of an emergency, to help in setting up some kind of
provisional government; and (3) to have his general views on the possibility
of an insurrectionary movement.

Since I had arranged to return to Washington on the same day, I did
not give Ray much Line to do a thorough job. However, he was able to
furnish se with a list of names, covering points (1) and (2). He promised
to provide me with additional information after checking with some of his
associated in New York and Miami. His thoughts on the possibility of an
insurrectionary movement idll be the subject of a separate semorandum.

LIST I

The persons herein indicated are either in Cuba or are working for
the Cuban Government. I add my own comments in parenthesis, based on
my conversations with Ray.

A- GENERAL

[Regino BOTI
-Minister of Economy

(Ray feels he is disgusted with the Castro regime.
Instructions have gone out to sound his out. No
reply as yet.)

[Commander Ifigenio ALMEJEIRAS
(Said to hold a key command position in Central
Cuba and to be thoroughly disgusted. Could be a
Key man in a top level revolt.)

[Commander Lester RODRIGUEZ
(Has helped the MRP. Mis allegiance to Castro has
considerably weakened)

[Commander Padre MIRET
(Very close to Rodrigues. Mill most probably
follow his.)
Commander Rolande CUBELAS
(Is anxious to leave Cuba)
[Rafael ESTANCOURI
(Commands an artillery post. His brother [name us
farnished) is actively against the regine.)

SECRAT

14-00000

To proteit
ident: tij of
Luis Pinedo
Suggesit we
Redact "Policia Judicial"

[Captain Luis PINEDO Pares (Terry)
(Chief of the Poll
talked against Cast

[Commander Faustino PÉREZ
(Former Minister. I
views. Probabiy and
in Ray's opinica.)

[Commander Antonio E. LUZON
(Favorable to the

[Commander Bernabe ODAZ
(In charge of faserta

[José NARANJO
(Fald key positien in Savana province. Reported
to have expressed strong views against Castro.)

[José ASSEF
(Formerly connected with "Goberneción. Also in
opposition to Castro).

[Sebastián ARCOS
(Formerly connected with the Finance Ministry. Known
to be critical of regine.)

[Karique IBARRA
(Under-Secretary of Public Works. Favorably inclined
to the MRP)

[Armando FRANCO
(Present post unknown. Reported to be against Castro.)

[Alfredo YABUR
(Minister of Justice, Conflicting reports as to his
Allegiance to Castre.)

[Carlos LBENGA
(Ancassador to Nexico, has recently written to an
MRP Friend. Maar wiled, might be anxious to defect.)

Marique ECTRIQUEZ Looche

(Caben Anbassader to Korsoce. Presumed to be
anti-Castro.)

[José FELLON
(One of the executive ambers of the Confederación
de Trabajadores Cubanos-Cuben Markers' Untori.
Kas been in coctars, sith the P.)

14-00000

SECRET

[Joe DIAR
(Another labor leader, known to be anti-Castro.)
Captain Haruel CARBONKL
(Assistant to LINEJEIRAS, In opposition to
regine.)

[Commander Guillermo GARCIA
(Active in the western provinces. The MIP 18
checking on a report regarding his disaffection.)

[Antonio ESCOTO
(Was in command until recently of e naval post in
BARACOA. Definitely anti-Castro.)

[Jose Cal Colón
(Also from Baraces. In charge of one of the
militia regimenis.)

[Manuel PREZ
(Municipal Treasurer, Baracoa. Decidedly anti-
Castro.)

[Taras DSTRO
(Beld government position in Oriente. Ko to
be Anti-Castro.)

[Captain Duque ESTRADA
(has helped the KRP)
The "Alcaldes" (Kayors) of Oana Jany and San Cristobal)
to be against the regime.

[José Angel ROMERO
(A Corner businessman frva Baracoa.)

[Jean QUILLARON
(Also from Baracos. A public accountant.)

(Pornar nayor of Artemisa)

Feriberto DEL PORTO
Erasmo OCM
Jose SARCH
Jose MUZA
Danilo MESA
Pedro IGERSTAS Betancourt
Maniel DORTA Jaque

(Could be helpful in Kavani
Province.)

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

[Austin TOHR
(From Camaguey. Former governor in 1959-60.
Trusted by the original revolution.),

[Osorio DAVILA
(Tery respected in Katanzas. Also linked ad tà
the original revolution.)

[Argelio MARTINEZ
(Forser commissioner in Matansas.)

[José DEL RIO Lago
(A respected land surveyor in Pinar del Río.
Former Commander of the July 26 Koresent.)

The main center of conspiracy within the government against Castro,
according to Rey, is the Planning Board (Junta Central de Planificación.)

D-TRAINED PERSOANEL

1. The following list includes technicians working for the government
under contract or as public officials. Those marked with an asterisk (*)
are highly trusted by Ray.

[Arq. Joaquín SEBARKS
Public Works, Orienta Province Quantánamo)

[Arq. Carlos MARURI (Ma-uri, dr.)
Municipality of Havana.

[Argi. Armando PUENTES
Public Morks, Havana Ave. 26 Between 29 & 27 Totado)

• Arq. Marianao DOU Riers
Municipality of Kavana Sta. Catalina 360, Vibora, Ravana

• Arq. Rodolfo SANCHEZ García
Publie-Works, Havana 25-15609, Marianeo

•Arg. Fernando o de Villaricencia
Pablic Works, Oriente Ave. 94 F15007, Rpte. Cinódromo, Marianas

Arq. Derario DIY Van Der Outch (Public Works, Habana) 408 Between 27 & Jovallar, Kavana

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET
-5-

[Arg. Julio ALDECOCYA
(Las Villas) Kari. Retiro Odontológico 1302, Vedado.

Arq. José MARZOL Valenzuela
Professor at University of Havana.
Soto $50 Corner lst, Arroyo Marando

[Arg. Antonia SUAREZ
Public Works, Havana Ave. 11 4813, Marianao]

[Arg. Joaquín PELARZ Canallata,
INRA, Havan Infanta No. 24 - Apt. 601, Havana

Franc1000 LARA,
Truck business

Messrs. Manuel and Mario LOPEZ
88 A-45307, Marienso

194 46510 - Between 65 y 73 Marianao
Foremen in Public Works, Les Villas

Arq. José CANAVES Ugalde
Ave. 26 & Zoológico, Ravana

2. Other trained personnel, not connected with the governmeert.

[Arq. Pedro CUKSR(1),
Was in Public Works, Havane

Arq. Felipe OMEZ Albarras
Ex-professor University of Havana and Vilanova

Arq. Carlos MOURIN
Nas in Public Works, Kavana Ave. Zoológico 202, Vodado

Arq. Ricardo CORONAS usport
28 ko. 270 Bet, 21 and 23, Vededo

[Alberto COURIEL
Calsada No. 1059 Corm of 14, Vedado

Rodolfo SOCARRAS Sanches
Extension of Maceo, El Wann, dezin

Arq. Miguel ALCOLADO de la Torre
Kazino Gómez ko. 3. Quanténamo

SECRET

14-00000

SECRET

Rodulfo TEARRA Peres
President, National Collers of Architects
15 ño. 259, Vista Alegre, Santiago de Cuba.

Arq. Sebastian J. Riva
Terraza No. 155 Santiago de Cuba

Emilio CARBO
No. 8610 Between 86 and 88, Miramar, Havana

Arq. Everardo GARCIA Fernández, Sa Ave., 6602
Marianao

Kr. Anastasio ROSENORD, Contractor
180 Ko. 4107 - Bet. 41 and 43, Marianao

Mr. Manolo RODRIGUEZ Garage
26 No. 502 Vedado

• Kr. Humberto RODRIGUEZ,
Plumber 60A, 2114, Karienso

Mr. Marmel LOBELIA
Electrician - Narianso.

Arq. Antonio VICO,
tahabans (Municipality of Marianas)

Arq. José Roberto CEOMAT, Ex-Dean University, School of Architecture
Brd Ave. $130 - Bet. 12 & 16, Kariana

October 30, 1962
