14-00000.
104-10172-10201
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

UNCLASSIFIED 
ERNAL
USE ONLY 
CONI ENTIAL 
SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: AELADLE

FROM: SR/01/K - [Curls] 03

DATE: 15 Nov 65

TO: (Officer designation, room number; and DATE OFFICER S COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from
building) RECEIVED FORWARDED INITIALS
1. CI/R and A

2. TRHAL NAHIT For your retention.
Ru Rocca

3.
4.

5. e/eler

6.
7.
8.
9. 21/516 Jan бил

10. Purs. E

11.
12.
13.
14.
15.

201-99788
FORM 610 EDMONS SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL UNCLASSIFIED
USE ONLY
-7/7

14-00000

5/
SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

02
SUBJECT: AESTORAGE No. 1060
 AELADLE

DOI : 1961 - 1963 or 1964

02
NOTE: CAESTORAGE represents a collation of information
 provided by several reliable and sensitive sources,
 some of them documentary. AESTORAGE information is
 not to be released outside of the Clandestine Services
 Components of CIA unless written authorization has been
 granted by C/SR/CI.02AESTORAGE information may be trans-
 mitted to CIA field stations only after it has been
 coordinated with C/SR/CI.

1. Source transited Helsinki in May 1961, at which time he
 obtained a visa at the Soviet Embassy from one KLIMOV. Beginning
 shortly after Christmas 1961 and continuing on and off for the
 next three months, Source was interrogated by the KGB in Moscow
 about his contacts with the KGB Legal Residency in Helsinki.
 Source prepared a written report giving in detail the physical
 description of all KGB officers who had met him in Helsinki.

2. In 1963 or 1964 Source was told by the KGB that it was
 unlikely he would ever he assigned to the United States as a
 Soviet who had defected in Helsinki could personally identify
 Source.

Distribution:

 Orig & 1 AELADLE
 1  DC/SR/CI
 1  SR/CI/I
 1  SR/CI/I
03
SR/CITI HINason:mic

Frank
After further
 research & levytho
 discussives, AESTORAGE
NO FOREIGN DISS A AESAMSHU, PROTECT
 the AE "Digraph only-

DRI
21 Apr 98
