104-10301-10008
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Description of JMWAVE Components

Support Branch

The Support Branch provided routine administrative
services to JMWAVE. These included finance, logistics and
records management and clerical support. The Branch had 19%
of JMWAVE's staffing.

Operations Branch

The Operations Branch was divided into two sections,
the FI Section and the Special Operations Section.
Staffing, consisting of operations officers and clerical
support, was 17% of JMWAVE's total.
The FI Section (Foreign Intelligence) was responsible
for the collection of intelligence from the target country
through covert HUMINT means.
The Special Operations Section was responsible for
paramilitary operations.

Covert Action Branch

The Covert Action Branch was responsible for covert
propaganda operations. Staffing was 10% of JMWAVE's total
and consisted of operations officers and clerical support.

External Operations Branch

The External Operations Branch was responsible for
collecting HUMINT on the target country through assets in
areas other than the target country. Staffing was 13% of
JMWAVE's total and consisted of operations officers and
clerical support.

Reports Section

The Reports Section prepared intelligence reports for
Headquarters and intelligence community consumers. Staffing
was 10% of JMWAVE's total.

Technical Services Section

The Technical Services Section provided photographic
support to JMWAVE. Staffing was 6% of JMWAVE's total.

Communicators

The communicators were responsible for secure
communications between JMWAVE and Hqs. Staffing was 8% of
JMWAVE's total.

13-00000
SUPPORT
BRANCH
SECRETARY
SECRETARY
JMWAVE
ORGANIZATION
CHIEF OF STATION
DEPUTY CHIEF OF STATION
COMMUNICATORS
OPERATIONS BRANCH
CA BRANCH
EXTERNAL
OPS BRANCH
REPORTS
SECTION
TECHNICAL
SERVICES SECTION
FI SECTION
SPECIAL OPS
SECTION

13-00000
4/10/98-0kd
vy Do/IRI
εω

DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS - 1963
Deputy Director for Plans

Western Hemisphere Division
Western Europe Division
Soviet Russian Division
Eastern Europe Division
Africa Division
Far East Division
Near East Division
Special Operations Division
Technical Services Division
Domestic Operations Division
Counter-Intelligence Staff
Foreign Intelligence Staff
Covert Action Staff
Operational Services Staff
Special Activities Staff

13-00000
4/1098 K by
DO/IR8
DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS - 1961
Deputy Director for Plans
Western Hemisphere Division
Western Europe Division
Soviet Russian Division
Eastern Europe Division
Africa division
Far East Division
Near East Division
Technical Services Division
Development Projects Division
International Organizations Division
Counterintelligence Staff
Foreign Intelligence Staff
Covert Action Staff
Cover and Commercial Staff
Operational Services Staff

13-00000

SECRETARY
SECRETARY
JMWAVE
ORGANIZATION
CHIEF OF STATION
DEPUTY CHIEF OF STATION
SIGNAL CENTER
4-COMMUNICATORS
EXTERNAL
OPS BRANCH
REPORTS
SECTION
TECHNICAL
SERVICES SECTION
SUPPORT
BRANCH
OPERATIONS BRANCH
FI SECTION
-Chief, Support
1-Secretary
1-Officer
1-Finance Officer
(Refugee
99
1-Finance Asst
Debriefings)
1-Logistics
1-Officer (On
Officer
Island Assets
1-Officer
1-Logistics qq
Asst
(Liaison with
1-Records
Local Services
Officer
1-Officer (FI
-Intel Asst
Third Country)
1-Clerk
1-External Ops
Rep (AMOT)
2-Intel Assts
(Management
of On-Island Ops
1-Secretary Steno
SPECIAL OPS
SECTION
2-Operations
Officers
1-Training
Officer
1-Property
and Supply
Assistant
99
CA BRANCH
!
99
1-Chief
1-Ops Officer
(Radio)
1-0ps Officer
1-Ops Officer
(JMCHALK)
)
(Pol Action
Press and
1-0ps Officer
Publication)
1-Admin Asst
1-Secretary
(Referent with
Station FI
Branch)
1-Intel Asst
1-Secretary
1-Clerk
Steno
99
Typist
99
3-Reports
Officers
(One of
these AMOT
officer to
handle AMOT
reporting)
1-Secretary
Steno
99
1-Photo General
1-10 Tech Aide
1-Clerk Typist
