104-10187-10030
14-00000
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
US! WCE ONTLE WAS ASSCALLOUS STATES
FILE TITLE/XPORT/VOLUEH.:
KDPADGES Vol I
Operations
INCLUSIVE DATES: 3 Jan 1962-19 Dec 1963
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
LIIDDO
POOM: 3034
DELETIONS, IF ANY:
/
KDBADGER 50-6-75/3
THATIE
DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED
REVIONED BY
(PRINT NAME)
24.6.18 6/26 1. NARDWAY,
6/27/28
26 JUL 1378
27 JULY 28
11/20/28
Da
STONATURE OF
REVIENING OFFICIA.
Panashivay
D. Hardway Handway-
HARDWAY
DAN HALOWAY
HAROWAY
Dan Handway
Handurany
SEN
IS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THES FILE.
FORM
3-02
قم
15.
OPERATIONS
LdeR-
JANUARY 1962 DECEMBER 1963 VOL
LIENVOY OPERATIONS
50-6-75/

:
FORM
2-00
2593
CONFIDENTIAL
NOTICE
i
THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT
ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS
i
DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER
TO IP/RPU GE-58.
NOTICE
CONFIDENTIAL
1
17-13)

DISPATCH
Chier, Ali Division
Chief, GR Division:
CLASSIFICATION
XX
SECRET
FROM
DUBJECT
Chief of Station, Mexico City
LCIMPROVE/LIENVOY - Terro de WANSTRAM or WANSTROHM (phonetic)
ACTIKON FEQUIPEDREFERENCES
PROLESSING ACTION
MARNED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESH
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM
,
س
1. Forwarded under separate cover as Attachment A are two LIENVOY
transcripts of 1.2 November 1963 and two LINVOY transcripts of 13 November
1963 which leadquarters may consider for transmitial to Suation Stockholm.
2.
Forwarded under separate cover as Attachment B is a photograph of
an unidentified male (who was accompanied by an unidentified temale whose
photograph the Station acset did not oblain) who visited the Soviet Erbassy
a. 1400 hours on 12 November 1965. The Station believes this male is iden-
tical with Subject since the male in the photograph is the only unidentified
male who was alco accompanied by a won and, secondly, this male appears
to be a nordic type. The Station recognizes, however, that Subject may have
ody claimed to be a Swede for cover purposes.
い。 The following is the comment made by Douglas J. PRINGLASS, the
Station's LIEINOY translator, concerning Attachment A:
He
"The exact spelling; of this neme could not be determined.
charted by naying that it is W AN.. and then stopped, emphasizing
the two dots above A. It is very strange that he, beln, a vele did not
seck the ald of his Swedish Consulate, but applied to the Covlet Na-
bacsy and asked for a man, whom he met by chance (?) in a restaurant.
Cut stronger still is the response of the Embassy officials, who went
out of their way to find a chip for him. Usually requests of this
nature are brushed aside and quite often in a very rude wanner. Judging
from his non-British accent ani almost flawless English, he rust have
lived in the United States or Cennda for quite some time." (The Station
PEDWOOD officer agrees with FEIGLASS comment regarding the usual re-
luctance of Soviet Fabassy officials to help in a matter of this type.)
4. Station Mexico has no record of any member os the Sovies Thbassy
travelling to Oaxaca during this period.
Station Hexico haso traces on Dubject.
Jum
Ww/alt A & B (u's/c)
SR w/att A & B (us/c)
CYS REFERENT TORT: SR/CI/A
CS CERY Mullard (Cuths
COPY
DATE
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
CURTIS
50-1-7513
19 December 1063
7
E
Geclars
HPA-22630
CLASSIFICATION
HOS FILE NUMBER
SECRE
Juknowm

COM
DISPATCH
Chief, Whi
CLASS-FICATION
FROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR
INDELING REQUIRES
QUA
CAN JUDGE INDULING
FLCM
Chief of Statit, Mexico City
SUBJECT
LIENVOY-8 - C-780040OA 17 Oct 1959
ACTION FEQUALD HESTREDANCES
Reference:
A. EMMW-12027 dated 23 Oct 1963
P. HMMA-21331 dated 10 May 1963
C. FHMMA-20408 dated 19 December 1963
CROFIL
1. Station Mexico regrets the confusion over the status of LIENVOY-8.
He was terminated 29 February 1960. An Agent Service Record is attached.
d. Theetptorem LIENVOY-MMA-20408 dated 19 December 1962
should have been ENVOY, Headerters roted that L'ENVOY-6 had been
omitted and called this to the attention of the Station in HMMW-11457 dated
1 April 1963. As it noticed at bat time that LIENVOY-5 had been included
in error in the project tenewal ٢٣٠٩١٢٢ Tatead of LIENΨΟΥ-6.
Enclosure;
Agent Service Record
Distribution:
3-WIH, 4 محمد
:
CASALTOONSMANNER
HMMA-7.2449
CSSTATION
ECRET
Willard C. CURTIS
DATE
7 November 1965
IC FILE NUMBER
201-118406
:

SECRET
LIENVOY PRODUCTION
NOVEMBER 1963
HMMs
MEXIS
HMM 8054
MEXI 7137
HMM 8046
MEXI 7133
HMM 8041
ΜΕΧΙ 7127
HMMAS
HMMA-22518
HMMA-22472
HMMA-22452
HMM 8039
MEXI 7119
HMMA-22449
HMM 8030
ΜΕΧΙ 7106 (HMM 8079)
HMMA-22422
HMM 8026
MEXI 7068
HMM 8019
MEXI 7065
HMM 8018
MEXI 7033
HMM 8004
MEXI 7028
HMM 8002
10
+
ΜΕΧΙ 7010 (HMM 2067)
MEXI 7000 (IMM 8057)
ΜΕΧΙ 6975
MEXI 6972
ΜΕΧΙ 6955 (HMM 8047)
ΜΕΧΙ 6937 (HMM 8045)
MEXI 6348 (HMM 8008)
ΜΕΧΙ 6840 (ΗMM 8001)
ΜΕΧΙ 6838 (HMM 8000)
ΜΕΧΙ 6830 (HMM 7994)
MEXI 6813 (HMM 7990)
MEXI 6810
MEXI 6805
ΜΕΧΙ 6790
ΜΕΧΙ 6757 (HMM 7973)
24
SECRET
GROUP 1
Erctated traz za
5
a
39
:

INFO
FROM
DISPATCH
SUBJECT
Chief, WH Division
CLANS CATW
SECRE
DESENSITIZED
Chief of Station, Mexico City
per GSX 43-43
e Monthly Operational Report for Project LIENVOX
ACTION REQUIRLD REFERENCES
Action: None. For Headquarters intormation.
Reference: HMMA-22135, 13 September 1963.
XX
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
OMLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM
1. There follows the monthly operational report for Project LIENVOY
activities during September 1963.
2. Target Lines - September 1963.
The following lines were covered during the month of September:
20-30-18
General Lazaro Cardenas del Rio/
20-83-46
General Lazaro Cardenas del Rio
24-18-18
Braulio Maldonado Sandez
43-01-85
Melquiades Maldonado Sandez
23-85-25
Alfonso Aguilar Monteverde pl
24-61-75
Jorge L. Tamayo Casteliejos MLN
45-59-52
-David Alfaro Siqueiros
13-21-14
Francisco Galindo Ochoa
43-15-06
-Enrique Gonzalez Pedrero
11-16-48
-Ignacio Acosta Lagunez MIL
19-15-06
-Roberto Romero Adams
(continued)
KOBADGER
/ARO
Enclosure:
Removed from Project
Production Report
Removed frication・・70/3
073-773774
Box:
29
Fold:
Distribution:
WH, w/encl
CROSS REFERENCE TO
Exclese
داری
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
ΗΜΜΑ-22267
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
DATE
8 October 1963
HOS FILE NUMBER
50-6-75/3

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
SECRET
HMMA-C2267
10-29-69
- Movimiento de Liberacion Nacional
46-12-70
-C.T.A. L.
46-11-30
D. F.S.
46-09-50
-D.F.S. (disconnected 18 September 1963)
35-36-52
Politica (Revista Manuel Marcue Pardinas)
46-60-15
-Prensa Latina
46-60-16
Prensa Latina
14-42-37
Cuban Embassy
14-92-14
Cuban Embassy (disconnected 23 September 1905)
25-07-95
Cuban Embassy (apartment of Ramon Sinobas
disconnected on 23 September 1963 when apartment
became vacant)
14-13-26
Cuban Embassy
15-60-55
Soviet Embassy (Chancery)
15-61-55
Soviet Embassy (Chancery)
15-69-87
Soviet Embassy (Military Attache)
15-61-07
Soviet Embassy (Commercial Office)
15-12-64
Soviet Embassy (Film Representative)
45-61-80
Czech Embassy
45-61-81
Czech Embassy
20-38-98
Yugoslav Embassy (connected 18 September 1963)
20-68-69
Yugoslav Embassy (connected 23 September 1963)
20-68-23
Yugoslav Embassy (connected 23 September 1905)
Headquarters will note from the above that three lines were disconnected in
order to cover three Yugoslav lines. Two of the lines which were disconnected
were Cuban Embassy lines, both were not in use by the Cubans. One was in
the apartment which had been vacated by Ramon Sinobas and not occupied by
other Cubans. The other was a telephone in the Cuban Embassy which was
never answered. The Cubans are trying to get Sinobas' line moved to the
Embassy. They have also asked for the telephone company to repair 14-92-14.
As soon as these lines are working again, coverage of two of the Yugoslav
Embassy lines will be dropped in order to pick up all the Cuban lines which
are presumed to have a much higher priority.
3. Processing of LIENVOY Information
1
The Station continues to receive full transcripts in Spanish on the
Cuban lines (three), the Soviet Embassy lines (five), and as of 18 and 23
September the Yugoslav lines (three). These transcripts are received each
morning for the day before. During September, the LIENVOY monitors
transcribed 1396 pages in addition to the daily resumen.
The outside translators now working on LIENVOY transcripts are
Orville HORSFALL, staff agent, who is used for almost any backlog which
begins to occur.
:
David B. SCHLAGETER, field contract agent, who transcribes the
Czech take.
Victor W. OBOLD, career agent, who transcribes the Yugoslav portion
of the Yugoslav take.
1
Douglas J. FEINGLASS, staff agent, who continues to transcribe the
Russian language portion of the Soviet take.
4. Exploitation of LIENVOY Information
Two leads from LIENVOY of operational interest in September 1963 were:
M
530
14..

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
T
SEGRETT
۵۰ روز
ΗΜΜΑ-22267
a. On 2 September 1963 a Russian speaking female contacted
the Soviet Embassy and asked for Svyatoslav Fedorovich KUZNETSOV, KGB.
She identified herself by name and as a professor from New Orleans. She
gave the address of her apartment and asked for a meeting. This lead was
promptly followed up by station investigative assets who identified the woman
and learned that she was attending a philosophers' conference at the University
of Mexico. She returned to the United States on 17 September. All available
information was forwarded to Headquarters for passing to ODENVY.
b. MEXI-6135 reported the contact between an unidentified Czech
woman and the Czech Embassy.
5. Liaison
On 18 September 1963 Oliver G. GALBOND and Willard C. CURTIS
met with LIELEGANT and LIERGO. They also saw LIELEGANT on 20
September.
6. Security
There were no security problems during this month.
7. Technical
There were no technical problems which AREHART could not handle.
8. Personnel
Robert B. RIGGS continues to meet Arnold AREHART each morning
before 0800 hours to receive all LIENVOY tapes and trascripta from the
previous day. The daily meetings with Victor W. OBOLD and David B.
SCHLAGETER, the two EE translators, Wertransferred on 18 September 1963
from the Station EE case officer to the KURIOT technician, Gregory D.
PARMUTH who delivers and receives reels and transcripts from them each
day. PARMUTH also acts as a cutout for Douglas J. FEINGLASS.
Paul V. LEVISTER, Headquarters KUTUBE officer, visited the
Station from 22 September to 1 October to consult with LIENVOY and LIFEAT
case officers in preparation for a report to be written on the two projects
as examples of tap operations which produce both positive intelligence and
operational leads.
9. Production
There is attached a list of reports, cables and dispatches forwarded to
Headquarters during this month.
(Curtis
Winard C. CURTIS
CLASS FICATION
LISE PREVIOUS EDITION
10530
REPLACES FORMY
51 5128A AND
[00:
WHICH ARE OBSOLE
SECRET/
CONTINUED
50-6 75/3
PAGE NO
3.

SECRET
LIENVOY PRODUCTION
SEPTEMBER 1963
MEX Is
HMMAS
NNS
ΜΕΧΙ 6333 (HMM 7812)
HMMA 22194
EMM 7793
ΜΕΧΙ 6332 (HMM 7810)
ΗΜΜΑ 22193
EMM 7783
MEXI 6519 (HMM 7804)
ΗΜΜΑ 22159
HMM 7770
ΜΕΧΙ 6302 (Hмм 7801)
ΗΜΜΑ 22149
HMM 7767
MEXI 6271 (HMM 7787)
ΗΜΜΑ 22135.
EMM 7742
MEXI 6215 (HMM 7761)
ΗΜΜΑ 22116
FNM 7725
ΜΕΧΙ 6205 (HMM 7760)
HMMA 22115
EMM 7724
MEXI 6135
ΗΜΜΑ 22000
EMM 7723
ΜΕΧΙ 6133 (HMM 7743)
HMMA 22052
ΜΗΧΙ 6129 (HMM 7741)
MEXI 6107
MEXI 6104 (HMM 7736)
ΜΑΧΙ 6097 (HMM 7725)
MEXI 6042 (HMM 7711)
MEXI 6038 (HMM 7708)
MEXI 6034
MEXI 6030 (HMM 7706)
ΜΕΧΙ 6029 (ΗMM 7707)
18
+
9
3
35

-
PERSONALITY BRIEF
1. General Lazaro CARDENAS del Rio
As a pro-Communist, anti-United States former (1934-1940)
President of Mexico, CARDENAS plays an important role in the
political activities of Mexico by virtue of his being the
spirtual leader of a great part of the Mexican left. His
leftist sympathies appear to fall primarily with the current
regime in Cuba (He alledgedly is a close personal friend of
Fidel CASTRO), secondarily with Communist China, and
lastly with the USSR.
2. Braulio MALDONADO Sandez
MALDONADO is a politically unscrupulous pro-Communist
former Governor of Baja California. He is a national leader
of at least three Mexican leftist organizations: (1) FEP
(People's Electoral Front), united single front of Mexican
Communists and Leftists; (2) MLN (National Liberation
Movement), rabidly anti-U.S., pro-Cuba Communist Front; and
(3) CCI (Independent Peasants' Center), radical, anti-Mexican
Government organization. Having been banished from Mexico
until after the 1964 elections for anti-government activities,
MALDONADO is currently in Europe and seeking admittance to
the USSR, obstensibly to visit his daughter who is a student
at the Friendship University in Moscow.
3. Alonso AGUILAR Monteverde
AGUILAR is a prominent pro-Communist Mexican intellectual
who is the titular head of the MLN (National Liberation
Movement), rabidly anti-U.S., pro-Communist front. He is a
full-time professor at the National Autonomous University of
Mexico and maintains active contact with several international
leftist and Communist figures. He has recently travelled to
Cuba and Warsaw.
4. Jorge Leonidas TAMAYO Castillejos
TAMAYO is a Communist professor at the National Autonomous
University of Mexico. He is a leading member of many Communist
front activities in Mexico including the CMP (Mexican Peace
:
1
50-166-55/3

-2-
قتم
Committee), the MLN (National Liberation Movement), and the
CEM (Circle of Mexican Studies). He has been in contact with
several leftist figures of various echelon, including Gen.
Lazaro CARDENAS, the Cuban Ambassador to Mexico, and Polish,
Soviet, and Chinese Communist officials. TAMAYO's son has
studied in Warsaw and travelled to the USSR and Communist
China.
5. Jose David ALFARO Siqueiros
ALFARO, one of Mexico's most prominent artists, has been
imprisoned for eight (S) years as a consequence of the role
he played in the Communist-inspired railroad stike of 1959,
He is a leader of the PCM (Mexican Communist Party) and has
visited the Soviet Union. He fought for the Loyalist Army
in the Spanish Civil War and was later arrested in Mexico
for complicity in the murder of Leon TROTSKY's secretary.
ALFARO has a long history of pro-Communist, anti-U.S. leanings.
6. Roberto ROMERO Adams
ROMERO is an informant for the Cuban Intelligence Service
in Mexico.
7. Enrique GONZALEZ Pedrero
Pro-Communist professor at the National Autonomous
University of Mexico, GONZALEZ Pedrero has contributed to the
writing or editing of at least five (5) leftist publications
in Mexico. He is a member of the National Committee of the
MLN, has alledgedly received training in the Soviet Union,
and has travelled to Cuba twice in recent times.
8. Ignacio ACOSTA Lagunes
Pro-Communist ACOSTA, a lawyer, is an aide of General
CARDENAS and a leading member of the MLN. He frequently has
contact with high-level personnel of both the Cuban and
Soviet Embassies in Mexico City. His political activities
include travel to Cuba and the Soviet Union, aid in the
management of the Communist Trade Fair in Mexico, and a great
deal of participation in promoting sympathy for the Cuban
Revolution in Mexico.

-3-
9. Direccion Federal de Seguridad - Federal Security Police
The principal functions of this security unit are to:
(1) Provide a plain-clothed security detail for the President,
(2) maintain an extensive telephone tap activity on both
the Rightist and Leftist political opposition forces, and
(3)perform investigations and arrests of primarily political
offenses. The unit's agents are largely poorly trained,
insecure, and unreliable. Their professional characteristics
are best described as being dishonest, cruel, and abusive.
The position, at this moment, of Manuel RANGEL Escamilla as
Director General of DFS is precarious.
10. Politica
A Marxist anti-U.S. semi-monthly magazine published in
Mexico, Politica is printed by Talleres Graficos de Mexico,
the same shop which prints La Voz de Mexico. In addition to
the modest revenues derived from a circulation of 15,000
to 25,000, Politica is financed by the Soviet Embassy, the
MLN, the PPS, and possibly, the Cuban Embassy. As an
indication of the Mexican government's assessment of the
capability of this magazine to influence public opinion, it
15 worthwhile noting that Politica frequently experiences a
great degree of difficulty in printing and circulating itself
due to the government's repressive efforts.
11. Movimiento de Liberacion Nacional (MLN)
Organized under the influence of the PCM in August 1961,
the MLN today is dedicated to the furtherance of the mutual
interests of its adherents who are found primarily in the
ranks of the PRI, the PPS, the PCM, the CNC and the UGOCM.
The MLN's objective is to gain leftist political represen-
tation in the government by inciting PRI to accept leftists
into its camp. As a consequence of this objective, the mission
of MLN is to generate evidence of popular leftist sympathy
by means of fomenting agitation among the popular, labor, and
peasant masses.
12. Confederacion de Trabajadores de la America Latina (CTAL)
The CTAL has recently been replaced by the CUTAL (Single
Confederation of Latin American Workers). Until recently, the

-4-
pro-Communist, CTAL, which is described as being the liaison
bureau of the WFTU (World Federation of Trade Unions) whose
headquarters are in Prague, was headed by Vicente LOMBARDO
Toledano.
13. Prensa Latina
Operationg directly under the Cuban Communist regime,
Prensa Latina is obstensibly a press service. In reality,
however, it is the official propaganda organ of the Cuban
Government. Prensa Latina works closely with Tass, the
Soviet Agency; with Hsinhua, the Chinese Agency;and with
Cetepka, the Czechoslovakian Agency.
50-6-75/3

: Chief of Station, Mexico City
X
: Chief of Station, Guatemala City
: Chief, All Division
: Victor Maduel GUTIERREZ Garvis (201-68248)
:
Refs: A. HAM-11838, 16-August 1963
B. HA-22262, 3 October 1963
1. Reference is made to your question about the type informa-
tion boeded on GUTIERREZ.
Headquarters is interested in "current"
information on his activities, and especially on his travels and his
contact with Kanuel VEGA Perez, Chief of G-2 at the Cuban Embassy
in Mexico City. The comment on fi-7289 regarded only the non-
dissemination of the report, and was not intended to discourage the
Station from reporting information on meetings between GOTIERREZ
and VEGA.
2. Headquarters would appreciate receiving, on a continuing
basis, pertinent information on GUTIERREZ extracted from the
LIENVOT take.
Distrioution:
2- COS, Mexico City
1
- COS, Guatemala
24 October 1963
END OF DISPATCH
HM-12049
SE
201-68249

2 October 1963
MENORANDUM FOR: Chief, Foreign Intelligence
SUBJECT: TDY to Mexico City
1. After taking a good look at LIENVOY and LIFEAT, I would agree
with the persons I talked with in Mexico; they maintain that any well-
run tap operation should produce substantial intelligence information,
provided the targets are of intelligence interest, and provided also
there are people at the station who look for it and are able to recog-
nize it. The case of LIFEAT is interesting in this respects It has
been deprived of its most productive lines in favor of LIENVOY, and
yet its intelligence production compares favorably, with that of the
other productive taps, except LIENVOY.
2. Mexico has people who can detect any little item of intelli-
gence significance. This includes the Chief of Station, who goes over
the highlights of the previous day's take every morning and marks
certain items for action by station case officers or reports officers.
The reports officers work on copies of the take at the same time.
3. There are several aspects of LIENVOY that make it an excellent
operation and an outstanding producer of intelligence. I will describa
thes in detail when my notes get here from the station. The principal
factors in the success of LIRNVOY seem to be the following.
a.
The agreement made with top Maxican officials, unlike
many such agreements elsewhere, is as much in effect today as it
was at the start: the targeting is not based on personal politics;
the intercept staff has stayed on the job; the equipment is con-
sidered to be on loan from CIA.
b. The native monitoring staff has reached a peak of effec-
tiveness that everyone at the station praises very highly.
c.
The station is organized to handle the take speedily as
soon as it comes in. The Chief of Station, the case officers, the
reports officers, all work on it at the same time and exchange
views on hot items. They do not let reports backlogs accumulate.

:
d. Bach new item on a target person is linked to a past
history; what appears as a fragmentary bit in a conversation
becomes a meaningful development in a continuous story. Conti-
muity on the job makes this possible.
e. The equipsant is kept in good working order by complete
cleaning and checking of each unit once a month. The 32 units
in use today are those installed in 1959.
4. A detailed description of LIENVOY and its counterpart LIFEAT
should provide good models with which to compare other tap operations.
It should give criteria for good procedures. It should give some idea
of the desirable size of such operations, considering the available
targets, the size of the station, and the other tasks and operations of
the station. It should show what the station puts into ita tap opera-
tions and what it gets out of then. LIENVOY and LIFEAT are an interesting
example of two interacting operations, one Joint and the other independ-
ent.
5. My stay in Nexico was as interesting and fruitful as it was
enjoyable. And I hope it was not too great a burdan on the station.
ye
CC: C/WH/3

ORIG: J.M. WHITTEN:Jpm
UNIT: WH/3
EXT
5613
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
[NOEX
1,
[NO INDEX
DATE: 16 Sept 1963 FILE IN CO FILI NO.
ΤΟ : MEXICO CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF:
C/WH 5
INFO:
ADDP, C/CI, RF, VR
TO
MEXI
INFO
RYBAT LIENVOY
SOLENO
17 SEP 63 5 23z
STOCEN
LEFERRED
RROUTINE
CITE DIR
68906
IDEN IN BRILLARD MESSAGE TO CURTIS TRANSMITTED BY GALBOND
IS MR. GERARD CAMPAGNA.
Wc. Lerd
CWILD
RELEASING OFFICER
/.
END OF MESSAGE
WH/COPS
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
CROOF 1
さころのつらい and
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
J.M. WHITTEN
CHII/3
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
Copy No.

CLASSIFICATION
.1
xx
TO
DNFO
DISPATCH
Chief, WH Division
CHER T
FROM
SUBJECT
Chief-of-Station, Nexico City
Monthly Operational Report for Project LIFNVOY
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
Action: None. For Headquarters' information.
Ref
: HMMA-22005, 23 August 1963
PROCESSING ACTION
BANEO REINEN
NO INCEROS RE
CARY QUALIFIER NSA
CAN HOE INDEXING
丸
1. There follows the monthly operational report for Project LIENVOY
activities during August 1963.
2. Target Lines - August 1963.
There were no changes in the target lines daring this reporting
period. The Yugoslav lines have not yet been connected but one of them should
be operating by the und of September.
3. Frocessing of LIENVOY Information.
HMMA-22000 dated 21 August 1963 transmitted the first group of
copies of transcripts against the Cuban lines. Since that time, carbon copies
have been forwarded to Headquarters on a weekly basis.
Orville HORSFALL, staff agent, has eliminated the backlog of
some fifty reels from the Russian lines and at the present time is working on
the Polish LIFEAT coverage which Woodrow GABFOTT (ps) has not been able to
handle. HORSFALL will be used in this capacity only until the Station has a
higher priority job for him or until his permanent assignment is determined.
There has been no change in Douglas J. FEINGLASS' assignment
since the last progress report.
4. Exploitation of LIFNVOY Information.
The following are some (not all) of the exploitations during
August 1963 of leads from LIENVOY:
a.
LIENVOY contributed support to the REWOOD AEJUMBO oper
ation during this period by confirming several contacts between the principals
Involved. Details of this case have been reported by the Station SR Case Officer.
CROSS REFERENCE TO
b. On 8 August LIFNVOY reported indications that an tunnauned
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
DATE
.13 September 1963
HMMA-22135
SAJU 1
CLASSIFICATION
HOS FILE N
Eachuted from
ws, recine and
50-0-75043

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
IMMA-22135
to travel alone by plane to
DIZTAG diplomat stationed in Caracas planned
Mexico City via Panama carrying a diplomatie pouch for turnover in Mexico and
return to Caracas with diplomatic mail received from DIZTAG couriers in Mexico.
This was reported to Headquarters, Carmens, and Panama as a possible opportunity
to obtain or copy these pouches. (MF-XI-5681)
c.
On 7 August this project revealed contact between the
Partido Popular Socialista and the Soviet Ambassy. Roberto JARAMILLO Flores,
national leader of the Juventud Popular Socialista, the youth organization of
the Marxist Partido Popular Socialista, arranged for an urgent meeting with
Nikolaly Sergeyevich LEONCV, Third Secretary and Cultural Officer of the Soviet
Embassy. It will be recalled that LEONOV went to the Soviet Union and acted
as interpreter for Mdel CASTRO on his visit there earlier this year. MEXI-5705
transmitted a report on JARAMILLO's contact with LEONOV.
d. On 5 August LIENVOY reported the presence in Mexico of
one Doctor Paul BARAN who was in contact with Cuban Embassy officials and prom-
inent Mexican Marxist intellectuals. BARAN appeared to be on a trip throughout
South America. A check of Station files revealed that this was probably identical
with Paul Alexander BARAN, Russian born naturalized U. S. citizen and professor
of economics at Stanford University, Palo Alto, California. BARAN has visited
Mexico in the past and made contact with American Communists and Mexican leftists.
This information was sent to Headquarters in MEXI-5735 for dissemination to
ODENVY.
e.
On 12 August William ROSE, who identified himself as a
student from the United States studying at the University of Mexico (UNAM) asked
for an interview with Vicente LOMBARDO Toledano, Secretary General of the Popular
Socialist Party (PPS). ROSE claimed to have letters of Introduction to LOMBARDO
from laborr leaders in the United States. A check of Station files revealed
William Maurice ROSE, 1474 Federal Way, Salt Lake City, Utah, as a student at
the UNAM. This report was sent to Headquarters in MEXI-5752 for dissemination
