14-00000
104-10130-10472
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED
"TERNAL
ONLY
CONFENTIAL
SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

FROM:
Chief, Central Cover Staff
Nonofficial Cover Branch
1-A-20

EXTENSION NO.

DATE
26 MAR 1963

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and
building)
DATE
OFFICER'S
INITIALS
RECEIVED
FORWARDED
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
to whom. Draw a line across. column after each comment.)
1.
Office of Security
(Attn: Mr. Bannerman)
G-E-31

29. R83
For your information
2.
bol. Edwards

2 Apr SE
3.
Im. White

20%. 2.1.2
Sice meish
#493364
4.
7M-hangan
Place
wachsenbunt file.
5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.
FORM
3-62
610
USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED
14-00000
29 RAT 1909
CS-2793
MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

SUBJECT:
The Wackenhut Corporation
3280 Ponce de Leon Boulevard
Coral Gables, Florida

1. Mr. Bannerman, Security Office, arranged through Chief,
CCS for the writer to meet Mr. George Wackenhut, President of
subject, to explore its potential for cover support. At 10:30
a.m., on 14 March 1963, Mr. Wackenhut, Mr. Wes Reynolds, and I
met at Mr. Reynold's home, 3809 37th Street, North, Arlington.
Mr. Reynolds apparently represents Wackenhut in the Washington
area, although I did not gather that the firm is actually
operating here at present. Mr. Wackenhut and Mr. Reynolds, both,
are ex-FBI agents.

2. Wackenhut started his firm in 1954. In 1961 it was
reported to have 1100 employees and anticipated 1961 sales in
excess of $5 million. At present it has offices in Miami,
Coral Gables, Tampa, Jacksonville, Philadelphia, New York City,
Boston, Buffalo, Denver, Los Angeles, San Jose (Calif.), Honolulu,
San Juan and Ponce, Puerto Rico. Wackenhut freely states that
he trades on the reputation of the FBI by publicizing widely the
21 ex-FBI agents, including two former Assistant Directors of the
FBI, in his management.

3. The Operating Divisions of the company and their services
are described in a Wackenhut brochure as follows:

Investigative Division..

Performs all types of investigations for attorneys, insurance
companies, banks and other businesses; sets up internal audit
systems to prevent embezzlements, and investigates personal back-
grounds of prospective executives, business partners and associates.

Scientific Services Division

Conducts pre and post-employment, pre-promotional and speci-
fic lie detector examinations for business and industry; special-
izes in technical security and investigative techniques, scientific
detection devices, and electronic and mechanical security methods
and equipment, and performs electronic "sweeps" to counter business
espionage through the detection of electronic intrusion attempts.
YRS
14-00000
-2-

Internal Intelligence Division
Specializes in exposing and controlling inside thefts that may
range from employee pilferage, through embezzlement of thousands of
dollars, to highly valuable industrial secrets.

Central Clearing Division
Assists personnel and security directors to screen quickly
the backgrounds of present and potential employees through the
massive files of The Wackenhut Corporation.

Retail Store Protection Division
Increases net profits by reducing inventory shortages through
the control of internal and external losses with security programs
designed to meet the client's specific needs.

Training Services Division
Provides specialized training programs for security, fire
fighting, investigative and other personnel of business organiza-
tions and professional groups.

Industrial Security Division
Provides the essential security services that are required by
all companies seeking or handling government classified contracts;
assists management in disaster and emergency planning.

Fire and Safety Division
Supplies ambulance services, first aid crews, Wackenhut fire-
men fully trained in the technical field of industrial and muni-
cipal fire fighting and equipment, and safety surveys, systems,
and educational programs.

Guard Forces Division
Selects, investigates, trains and supervises the uniformed
and plain-clothes guards who protect your operations; also provides
uniformed receptionists and guardettes; makes physical property
surveys to determine security requirements and establishes security
systems and controls.

4. Mr. Wackenhut wants to expand abroad, in view of his
successful venture into Puerto Rico. However, he has no definite
plans as of the present and seemed to be seeking from CIA covert 24
sponsorship for entry into areas of interest to us. He is pre-
pared to furnish personnel himself or to permit integration of 24
Agency nominees.

5. It is not apparent to me that there is any significant
market for Wackenhut's services in foreign countries, except
possibly among American businesses with physical plants overseas.
The nature of these services, I would presume, would make rather
difficult acquisition of the necessary occupational permits in
many countries. The potential for clandestine intelligence acti-
vities would be too obvious to host governments, and the emphasis
2/RS
14-00000
-
3
-

on former FBI personnel probably would enhance such suspicions,
particularly in Latin America where "FBI" means "intelligence"
since its WW II activities there.

6. CCS/NC on occasion receives requests for advice to busi-
ness organizations as to setting up security systems at overseas
installations. We recently referred a request of this type,
involving a major oil company, to the Physical Security element of
the Security Office. Conceivably, the Agency might make some
arrangement to advise Wackenhut of such requests, providing our own
Security Office is satisfied as to Wackenhut's competence. We 24
could then place an Agency representative, if desired, in the team2y
dispatched overseas by Wackenhut should his company successfully
secure the contract.

7. Wackenhut said he would be willing to dispatch teams to
set up personal security systems for foreign chiefs of state
whom the Agency wants protected. He is amenable, in fact, to any
reasonable application of his capabilities to Agency problems.
He would be willing to negotiate financing in equitable propor-
tions in the event an overt operation, set up at Agency behest,
were not financially self-susteining.

8. Wackenhut impressed me as a clean-cut, energetic, ambitious
young business man who is obviously proud of what appears to be
a superior organization of its type. He is interest/in profits,
but it is my impression he is sincerely eager to do what he can to
assist the government and feels that CIA offers one possible oppor-
_tunity. Incidentally, he appears somewhat younger in person then
in the pictures appearing in the promotional material given the
writer.

9. Copies of this memorandum are being furnished those Agency
components which might have an interest in utilizing subject com-
pany. Inquiries may be directed to the writer.
21.03
10
FRED R. YOUNGBLOOD
Chief, CCS/C
URS
