14-00000
104-10165-10084
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

E 2 INPDEY CL BY 007622
CONFIDENTIAL
(When Filled in)
RESPONSE TO DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE REQUEST FOR SECURITY CHECKS
FROM: Cearance Support Branch, Personnel Security Division
TO : Domestic Contact Service, FO: MILANI (MOCabria)
SUBJECT'S NAME
Lest
.
First
Midifle
CISIEROS
Rogelio
Vencosiso
A1412377

532 652
DATE
2
7 May 1973
20 October 1972
US CITIZEN
ALIEN
OTHER NAMES USED INCLUDING MAIDEN, ALIASES, ETC.
CISKEROS Max, Rogelio Wenceslav
THIS NOTICE IS VALID THRU
1978
(Maj-Yr.
USE OF SUBJECT DURING THIS PERIOD BY OFFICES OTHER THAN DCS
(except those having prior interest) MUST BE COORDINATED WITH DCS.
1. Reference is made to your request for security checks on the Subject person. If the identifying information furnished is erroneous in any
wzy, this division should be inmediately. Quecks based upon erroneous information ore incalid.
2. The necessary checks have been completed and no pertinent information has been obtained except as noted below:
CITIZEN:
Passport data attached.
Subject was last favorably investigated in
Denied Area Case: FBI Check was completed.
Other NAC's were completed.
This office has no objection to Subject being used in accordance with: DCT's memoravium dated 25 November 1961
Summary of noteworthy information is attached for your consideration in determining the extent and bred of your use of Subject.
ALIEN: This is not an approval for this alien's access to classified information.

FBI bas no objection to your preliminery contact with Subject. (Resubmit with full biographic date if contect is to continue.)

FBI has no objection to continuing contact with Subjoct.
Pertinent information has been devloped, and is attached.
3. This advisory on investigative results is for contact purposes only and is not to be construed as a clearance of Saljert peason beyond that.
4. Coordination of prior covert interest:

Not necessary
Please contact

No objection interposed by
5. Remarks
FOR DCS/HOS USE ONLY
APPROVED/SECRET
FORM 2941 USE PREVIOUS
2-70
EDITIONS
Chirf. Personnel Secunjy Division
3-DCS/HQ
CONFIDENTIAL

14-00000

SUBJECT:
LATE:
The passport file of SUBJECT in:
naze as shown above; or
under)
was reviewed at
the variation
the Passport Office, Department of State, with the following results:
EIXTH: On 3-
PASSPORTS ISSUED:
Post recent-me
for (tire) 2
at
issued ca
at
travel to or residence in
for purpose of
SPOUSE: Hane
; born at
on
Married (date)
and
narriage not terminated; or terminated on
dae
Kever Harried
FATHER: Name
Born at
onf
If foreign born, U. S. citizen:
Yes
No
Deceased
MOTHER: Kaze
Born at
en
If foreign born, U. S. citizen:
Yes
No
Deceased
PERMANENT RESIDENCE:
KAILING ADDRESS:
OCCUPATIO0:
Previous
Over
rife at FC, Suitland, M., (Check if applicable)
"X" in circle indicates verification of information on Bio Act. Any discrepancies
or variations are written in as shom os Passport application.

14-00000
E 2 EXPOET CL ET 607622
CONFIDENTIAL
than Failed Int
DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE REQUEST FOR SECURITY CHECKS
Aはミミク
OS FILE NO.
(OS Use Onl
TO
: Clearance Support Branch, Persoand Security Division, Office of Security
FROM Domestic Contact Service, FO: MIAMI (NMOstrie)
DATE
DA20 October 1972
SUBJECT'S NAME
First
Hiddle
US CITIZEN ALIEN
CISHEROS
Rogelio
1
Wenceslao
OTHER NAMES USED INCLUCING MAIDEN, ALIASES ETC
SEX
DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH
CISNERES Diaz, gaseshav
:
AV
Male
20 March 1927/Camaguey, Cabe
CITIZENSHIP (Country)
NATURALCATCA MEER, PLACE AND DATE
SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER
265178: 6136
ALJEN REGISTRATION NO
US (Beturalized)
9260415/16Land, Florida/July 1963
FULL NAME
CATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH
CITIZENSHIP
SPOUSE
FATHER
MOTHER
FROM
TO
1963
1969
1969
Present
PESIDENCES - COMPLETE ADDRESS (Current and Lact 5 vears)
549 Deleon Deive, Kloni Springs, Florida
264 Palmetto Drive, alami, Flocida
155050
EXPLORVENTS Current and bact 5 years
EMPLOYER'S NAME
FROM
TO
1972
Precent
Rolme Trading Corporation
1570
Δες 1972
Colombia Institute of iσαγωγή
FROM
TO
EDUCATION College, Graccoste Park)
NAME OF SCHOOL
ADDRESS
5574 S.V. 8th Street
Coral Cables, Florida
5.
Miami, Florida
DEGREE AND MAJOR
PRIOR US GOVERNMENT SERVICE INCLUDING MILITARY
OTHER GOVERNMENT AGENCY CLEARANCES HELD
REMARKS
FORM 2941 USE PREVIOUS
2-70
EDITIONS
CONFIDENTIAL
NEW REQUEST
RECHECK
OS NUMBER AND DATE (lf & rechock,
€532 652- 22 Καν 67
26 OCT 1972
4-DCS/HQ

14-00000
F-14-12-37
Miame appre
CONFIDENTIAL
(Thee Filled In)
DATE
: 22 Acrember 1967
MEMORANDOM FOR: Director, Domestic Contact Service
SUBJECT
: CISKERCS Diaz, Rogelio Wenceslav
#532 532
1. This will confirm our report that the FBI interposes no
objectice to the proposed interrogatica of the Suject alien and is
to inform you that secrity checks on Subject have been completed.
2. The FBI has requested that they be advised if information
of an intelligence nature, which may be of interest to that Bureau,
is developed as a result of the contexpiated interrogation.
3. This is not a security clearance of this person.
1
4. Any additional inforcation we have obtained is attached arč
is sübuitted for your confidential use only. It is not to be dissexi-
nated outside of CIA.
CONTACT APPROVED
(ALIEN)
FORM
1998
Rider R. Kotish
E, PERSONNEL SEE FITY DIVISION
Office of Security
CROMP
CBSOLETE PREVIOUS
CONFIDENTIAL
(4.40)

14-00000
DATE
18 October 1967
TRANSMITTAL SLIP
TO:
ROOM NO.
SERVICES DIVISION
BUILFANG
REMARKS
Fora 180 attached on:
Rogelto Wenceslav CISKZROS Diaz
Mini Field Office/Acharneco
FROM:
ROOM FOL
-241
FORW NO
FEB SS
BUILDING
REPLACES FORW
WHICH MAY DE ESERL
EXTENSION
5

14-00000*
Miami (Charne)
18 October 1967
NO.
3. DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH
20 Mar 27/Camaguey, Cuba
4. SEX 5. CITIZENSHIP
M
Cuban
:
23 OCT 1967
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
BIOGRAPHIC DATA
1. SUBJECT'S LAST NAME FIRST NAIJE - MIDDLE NΑΝΣ
CISHEROS Diaz, Rogelio, Wenceslav
2. ALIASES
141237
5. FULL NAME OF SPOUSE, DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH. CITIZENSHIP
7
TO
1947
1959
1957
1959
1960
1961
1961
Present
RESIDENCES (Including No., and Street, Zone, R.F.D., etc)
COMPLETE ADDRESS
Owner teacher at private school in Camaguey
Coordinator in Camaguey for 26 July Movement
Coordinator in Camaguey for Peoples Revolutionary Movement
(Anti-Castro)
In exile in the US; present address 549 De Leon Drive,
Kiazi Springs, Florida PHONE: 887-8830
EMPLOYMENT
TO
1961
1964
HANE OF EXPLOTER
Traveled considerably in the
COMPLETE ADDRESS
Caribbean area on JURE affairs
Present
Post, Buckley, Mooney and
Schuh Inc., Engineers
225 Westward Drive
Miami Springs, Florida
5-140902
141238
EDUCATION (High school, college, graduate work, etc.)
NAME OF SCHOOL
DEGREE OR MAJOR
CONTINUED
CONTINUED
CONTINUED
10. ADDITIONAL PERTINENT INFORMATION, INCLUDING FULL NAME, CITIZENSHIP DATA ON PARENTS AND CHILDREN.
▲ 12 406 212
23 OCT 1967
Cisneros has five children 5 to 17 years old; foster daughter age 22, named
Hirtha Borras.
POONS SCODE PREVIOUS
EDITIONG
PFO.11-60
CONTINUED

14-00000
SJ KOTSKO
:
・F.14-12-37-
C-0-3-P-1-D------
DATE 17 Bovember 1967
: Chief, MIANI FIELD OFFICE
:
CHARNECO
: Fil Approval to Contact Alien
Fe
-
A141237
ROGELIO WINCESLAV CESNEROS MAZ, Security arising tas informed
us that the 72 has no objection to your proposed ste
Security checke will be completed.
Marteipat
SECURITY
CROCP I
ivia
VIRGINIA L. 190933
Security Liaison Officer
SACUR DIY MESSAT 351
DEAD FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWEGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION
C-0-5-3-1-2-EP-I-L

14-00000

Phone:
SECTET
ROGELIO WENCESLAV CISNEROS DIAZ
549 De Leon Drive
Miami Springs, Florida
887-8830
A-14-12-37
BUSINESS:
Subject is with:
All1238-Post, Buckley, Mooney and Schuh Inc., Engineers, 225 Westward Drive,
Kiani Springs, Florida
Subject is now affiliated with the following organization as of October 1972:
Al72020-Relma Trading Corporation, Coral Gables, Florida

14-00000.
CONFIDENTIAL
(when filled in)
PROCESS SHEET FOR DCD COLLECTIONS
14-12-37
18 JU:
FIELD
OFFICE
SUBJECT AND AREA
CASE
NUMBER
FORAARDES
५०.
DA.
R
2 23 24 25 26
#63307
06165
168 475
RELEASED
MO.
404142
C4.
Construction and Expansion of Sugar Mills/Activities of Cuban Infiltrated
Guerrillas and Agitators
(Honduras), Organization, Addressi
Rogelio Cisneros
Relra Trading Co.
5574 S. W. 8th St.
Coral Gables,
crica
SOURCE (Name, Title, Organizatice, Addressi
FON TENGIRIC
16245
145
*NOT
TYPE DOM
GRAPHICS, MAPS,
PUBLICATINS,
REPORTS, Cтика
DISSE
MATED
ORGANIZATION NO.
SUBJECT
47 48 49 50. SUFFI
CIENTLY
DECO
Same
SUB-SOURCE (Nome, Tatle, Organization, Address!
INDIVIDUAL NO.
CRGANIZATION NO.
ISAT
3 MI
MELL
KZORN
2. TOO
IL GENERAL
SSOC
3. DATA
SUPPLIED
BY OTHER
AGENCIES
10
PROCEEENG
ELEMENT
51 52 53 54
RIE
CEO4. OTHER/MISC.
03. COMBINED WITH
8. INSUFFICIENT
INTEREST
RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC
REQUIREMENTS
X
INTERVIEW
METCO OF COLLECTION
OTHER DOCUMENT
DIRECTED TO
FIELD COMMENTS
TRIP REPORT
OTHER (Specify below)
SUP SREE INT DESK OFFICER
CIA X
CLA
OBJECTIVE REFERENCES
35563798526
a
CHANX
Desa-Soto:ljh
FORM 25
1-74
USE PRE 15
EDITS
(Metcalf)
EVALUATION
MEADQUARTERS COMMENT
OCI/WH/HO-WALLACE
6528
OFR/D/ZA- METZGER liet
4231
DDO/LA/CNH thu
334402
SS HALE
OCI/WH-D. Lynch of
Luis---I attempted to get a reaction
from the analyst regarding the
information in paragraph 2. Unfortur els
there is a new analyst for Honduras
who is now aqway on vacation and he
left no second who understands the
situation in Honduras. So rather than
held on to this report--I am returning
with no response from the analyst
Fred
AFARINGEM
7-018
Fit Festi
CONFIDENTIAL
EZIMPOET CL BY 007622
1

14-00000,
SCENTRAL
CENCE
DIRECTORATE OF
DOMESTIC COLLECTION L.VISION
Intelligence Information Report
This material contains information offecting the National Defense of the United States within
earring of
12.SC. Set 773 and the beanssica
or revelction of which is cay moner to on unauthorized person is promitted by law.
OPERATIONS
C-O-ジーアーTNIKIT-T-A-T
COUNTRY Hondarzs
DCD REPORT NO.
00-3 321/16864-75
SUBJECT Construction and Expansion of Sugar
Kills/Activities of Cuban Infiltrated
Guerrillas and Agitators.
DATE DISTR.
!
07 JUL 16
:
NO. PAGES
1
REFERENCES
DCD Case 63307
DATE OF INFO. May 1975
PLACE & DATE ACQ. BY SOURCE
Tegucigalpa, Honduras/May 1975
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION
SOURCE US citizen, executive of an import/export company with extensive business
connections in Central America and the Caribbean. Ee makes frequent trips
to these areas, and has contact with high ranking military and political
leaders. He speaks Spanish fluently.
1. The Government of Honduras (GOH) recently obtained a US$12 zillion loan
from the Central American Bank of Economic Integration for the expansion
of the Azucarera del Sur sugar mill located in Choluteca, Honduras. In
addition, the GOH has purchased two sugar mills, one in Brazil and the
other in Puerto Rico. The mills, bought at a cost of US$15 million each,
will be dismantled and shipped to caduras, where they will be reassembled
with the aid of foreign technicians. Also, another sugar nill is to be
built in the country at a cost of US$20 million; however, the Japanese
Mitsubishi enterprise will be the major stockholder, while Honduran private
businessmen will hold a minority interest. This is part of an expansion
and modernization program by the GOH with hopes of obtaining a larger
share of the world's sugar market.
2. The GCE is somewhat concerned with the infiltration through Mexico and
Guatemala of Communist agitators and guerrilla training personnel. These
guerrillas, mostly Cubans who remained in the country after they had
arrived allegedly to assist the GOH following Hurricane Fifi, are causing
growing concern as a result of several uprisings and invasion of private
lands by peasants in several parts of the country. The Cubans, who stayed
In the country following Hurricane Fifi and others who have arrived
clandestinely since that time, reportedly are training leftist militants
and sympathizers among the Honduran peasants. The agitators and guerrilla
instructors are taking advantage of growing unemployment and the overall
poor national economic situation to stir the peasants into activity against
the government.
- end -
ப
S
YES
YES
CONTROLLED DISSEM
C-O-N-R-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
Classified by 007672 Examat
genera Declassification sc of E.O.
1652
MODORE
メニュ
Exemption category 58121.
to determine care of au'o
NO DISSEM ABROAD
DCID 17 pabies the console for the disseminatipa and use of this intelligence and intelligence informaten in this report the de
of this document a Limited to sinkan and active duty matory personnel within the inteligence components of the 38 member agencies, and to sti
sonior officich of the member agencies who must act upon the formation: However, unless specifically controled in accordance with paragraph
OCID 1/7, it may be released those components of the departments ced agencies of the U.S. Government directly participating in the productise
of National Intelligence Dissemination of the report avtuor the States of the United States, or to any mindual en argonization, ether tith
speciked abase, a to todden, without the specific approval of the Domestic Collection Division, Directorate of Operations

14-00000
FIELD
OFFICE
CONFIDENTIAL
(when filled in)
PROCESS SHEET FOR DCD COLLECTIONS
FORAARCES
CASE
NUMBER
1019 2:
22 23 24 224
63307
06135167
14-12-37
75
SUBJECT AND APEA
Negotiations for Economic Agreement with Venezuela/Influential Officers in
Fational Defense Council
(Honduras)
CONTACT (Nome, Tre, Organization, Addressi
Fogelio Cisferos
Relna Trading Company
INDIVIDUAL NO.
45 TYPE OVE
GRAPHICS.MAPS.
PUBLICATIONS,
REPORTS, CTHER
RELEASES
५०. DA- VR
4341424344
106245
*NOT
CISSEM-
NATED
5574..
St.
Coral Gables, Florida
SOURCE (Nome, Inie. Organization, Address!
Same
SUB-SOURCE (None, Title, Organization, Address!
ORGANIZATION NO.
SUBJECT
*
PROCESSING
47404350 1. SUFF
ELEMENT
CIENTLY
WELL
51 52 53 54
KNORN
T
E
2. TOO
P
GENERAL G2
T
M
3. CATA
SUPPLIES
BY OTHER
INDIVIDUAL NO.
AGENCIES
4. OTHER/MISC.
5. COMBINED ΤΗ
ORGANIZATION NO
X
INTERVIEW
EALUATION
METHOD OF COLLECTION
PEQUESTED FROM
TRIP REPORT
OTHER (Specify below)
OTHER DOCUMENT
DIRECTED TO
FIELD.COMMENTS
SUP SREE INT CESK OFFICER
(Metcalf)
KIA SI
OBJECTIVE REFERENCES
151
LDesa-Soto:ljh
FORM 25
8-74
USE BEYHOUS
EXIONS
6. INSUFFICIENT
INTEREST
RESPONSIVE YOS ECIFIC
REQUIREVENTS
HEADQUARTERS COME
OC/WH/S-WALLACE
6828
DDO/LA/CNH tha oss (HACE)
384402
OFR/P/LA-METZGER
EOFFICER
7-018
CHIEF
metall FX Pleisten
CONFIDENTIAL
IMPDET CL BY 007622
1

14-00000
TELLIGENCE AC
DIRECTORATE OF
CPERATIONS
DOMESTIC COLLECTION DIVISION
Intelligence Information Report
Στις αποτονίναι κontains informaron criecing the National Defense of the United States within
the meaning of the Expronoge lows. Tire 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission
or reveiction of which in arcy aner to an outhorized person is prohibited by law.
C-O-FP-I-D-E-N-T-1-A-L
COUNTRY Honduras
SUBJECT
DCD REPORT NO.
OO-B 321/16716-75
Negotiations for Economic Agreement
with Venezuela/Influential Officers
in National Defense Council
DATE DISTR.
03 JUL 1975
NO. PAGES
1
REFERENCES
DCD Case 63307
DATE OF INFO. May 1975
PLACE & DATE ACQ. BY SOURCE Tegucigalpa, FordurasiYav 1975
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION
SOURCE
US citizen, executive of an import/export company with extensive business
connections in Central America and the Caribbean. Ee makes important trips
to these areas and has contact with high ranking military and political
leaders. He speaks Spanish fluently.
1. The new military regime in Honduras currently is holding talks with
Venezuela and hopes to sign an economic agreement in the very near
future. With that mind, the Goverment of Honduras (GOH) recently
sent a high level commission to Venezuela headed by Captain Armando
San Martin, Secretary of State for Economy and Commerce and by Attorney
Antonio Jose Cuello to ivid discussions with high ranking Venezuelan
Government officials. Prior to the talks, the GOH recently sold to
Venezuela 25 million linear feet of lumber at a total cost of US$5
million. The GOH hopes to reach an agreement by which Venezuela would
buy Honduran agricultural products for an unspecified mix of cash and
petroleum products. In addition, Venezuela would support a new agri-
cultural production plan to be implemented in the very near future by
Fernando Montes, Honduran Secretary of State for Agriculture.
2. Despite reports that Chief Executive Colonel Juan Alberto Melgar Castro
has unquestioned authority, Honduran military sources have indicated
that Mario Maldonado, Agrarian Refora Chief; Lieutenant Colonel Mario
Fonseca, Director of the Military Academy, and Lieutenant Colonel Juan
Ramon Molina Cisneros, Commander of the First Artillery Battalion are
the real "power behind the throne." These officers, who profess a
strong nationalist ideology, are interested simply in the general welfare
of the Honduran people, and they are maintaining a "watchdog" attitude
to insure that no one, especially people in positions of power, uses
such positions for his own personal benefit. These officers are members
of the National Defense Council (NDC), which also includes the commanders
of all major military units in the country. Maldonado, Fonseca, and
Molina appear to be the "first among equals" in the 15 member NDC.
5430
2
end -
54321
U
S
YES
YES
CONTROLLED DISSEM
C-O-N-F-T-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
Classified by 007672. Exempt from
generar conciassifications indie O
11052 Leemption category Stich
Impossible to determine date of auto
matic declassification.
NO DISSEM ABROAD
DCID 1.7 stabistes the control for the dissemination and use of the intelligence and intelligence information in this report The dissem
of this document is limited to cirian and active daty witary personnel within the inteligence components of the USIB member agencies, and to those
serior officials of the member agences who must ort aupar the infereoton. However, unless specifically controlled in accordance with poregraph
000 1/7, it may be released to those components of the departments and agencies of the U.S. Government directly participating in the production
ef National Intelligence. Dissemination of this report with the States of the United States or to any individual or organizatica, other than tham

14-00000
FIELD
OFFICE
CONFIDENTIAL
(when filled in)
PROCESS SHEET FOR DCD COLLECTIONS
CASE
NUMBER
14122
FORRARこもこ
24
103185
067
14-12-37
34 35 36
SUBJECT AND APEA
Current Political and Economic Situation/Expected Nationalization of Fishing
Industry/Leftist Influence in Cabinet
TYPE OウターE
FELCASED
DA YE
42 43
4401
NOT
(Honduras)
CONTACT (Nome, Title, Orgor.zation, Address)
INDIVIDUAL NO.
45
ISSEM
Rogelio Cisneros Diaz
LCATIONS,
KER Reima Trading Co.
このいいS, MAPS,
REPORTS, CTHER
BATED
5574 S. . 6th Street
ORGANIZATION 2.
OH
SUBJECT
Coral Gables, Florida
SOURCE (Nome, Tirie, Organization, Address)
Same
*
01. SUFFI
CIENTLY
COWELL
KNOAN
PROCESSING
ELEMENT
92 53 54
TSRE
OL GENERAL I NT
SUB-SOURCE (Nome, Tirie, Organzarian, Adds st
X
INTERVIES
OTHER DOCUMENT
DIRECTED TO
FIELD COMMENTS
2. TOO
3. DATA
SUPPLIED
BY OTHER
INDIVIDUAL. NO.
AGENCIES
OSS
N
R
4. OTHER/MSC.
5. COMBINES WITH
ORGANIZATION VO
6. INSUFFICIENT
INTEREST
RESPONSIVE SPECIFIC
REQUIREMENTS
METHOO OF COLLECTION
SUP SPEE
TRIP REPORT
OTHER (Specify below)
INT DESK OFFICER
(Metcalf)
EVALUATION
REQUESTED FROM
DQUARTERS COMMENTS
OC I-Four Wallace
7263-28 HQ
DDO 73B4402 HO-CFLA/CAM
FARL DREISONSTOK
CEERPINATE THRU CRNG WALE
OSS Rom 900
OFR-4983110/LA.
C.SPALDING
KIB 52
52
OBJECTIVE REFERENCES
CES OFF・こら
Desa-Soto:1jh
BEMAINWAR LNG
FM.C
FORM 25
1-74
USE PREVIOUS
Citrons
CONFIDENTIAL

14-00000
TELLIGENCE
ESION
DIRECTORATE OF
OPERATIONS
DOMESTIC COLLECTION
Intelligence Information Report
This material contains information affecting the National Sefense of the United States within
the meaning of the Espionage Lows. Title 18. U.S.C.3 and 794, the transmission
or rovelation of which in any mannor to on unauthorced person is prohibited by low.
C-O-N-P-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
COUNTRY Honduras
SUBJECT
DCD REPORT NO.
OO-Z 324/06715-75
Current Political and Economic
Situation/Expected Nationalization
of Fishing Industry/Leftist Influence NO, PAGES
in Cabinet
DATE DISTR.
1 APR 1975
1
DATE OF INFO.
February 1975
REFERENCES
PLACE & DATE ACQ. BY SOURCE Tegucigalpa/February 1975
SOURCE
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION
US national, executive of an import-export company. He is a frequent
traveler to Central and South America where he has developed good
contacts in the political and business sectors. He speaks Spanish
fluently.
1. Businessmen in Honduras have reported that the economic and political
situation in the country, currently in a sad state of affairs, is bound
to become worse as a result of the indifference being exhibited by
President Oswaldo Lopez Arellano. On the economic side, the private
business sector is quite concerned about an expected government move
to nationalize the fishing industry. Some foreign firms already are
pulling out of the country and moving to nearby countries like
Nicaragua and El Salvador. On the political side, President Lopez
has failed to name a permanent foreign minister since November 1974,
when Cesar Batres occupied that post. Ricardo A. Pineda is performing
those duties on an interim basis. The President also has undermined
Honduran youth by giving in to the demands of the leftist-controlled
labor unions. He gives businessmen the impression that he does not
know much about government; consequently, the situation in the country
has become very unstable.
2. Apparently, the regime in Honduras wants to emulate the current
Peruvian Government in failing to even consider elections at all.
In fact, the government, which is controlled by the military, has
three pro-left ministers in the cabinet. They are Manuel Acosta
Bonilla, Secretary of State for Finance; Guatama Fonseca Zuniga,
Secretary of State for Labor and Social Security, and Manlio Martinez
Cantor, Executive Secretary, Planning Board. At one time, Acosta was
the private secretary of the Mexican leftist leaser Vicente Lombardo
Toledano, so he has been thoroughly indoctrinated along Marxist lines.
end
U
YES
YES
CONTROLLED DISSEM
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
Classified by 007622. Exempt from
general declassification schedule of. E.Ο.
11652. Exemption rateonry 58(2).
Impossible to determine date of auto-
matic declassification.
1
NO DISSEM ABROAD
DCID 17 establishes the controls for the dissemination and use of the intelligence and intelligence information in this report. The dissemination
of this document is limited to civilian and active duty military personnel within the inteligence components of the USIB member agencies, and to those
senior officials of the member agencies who must act upon the information. However, unless specifically controlled in accordance with paragraph 8 of
DCID 1/7, it may be released to those components of the departments and agencies of the U.S. Government directly participating in the production
of National Intelligence. Dissemination of this report with the States of the United States, on to any individual or organization, other than them

14-00000
SECRET
(When Filled In)
14-12-37
PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS
FOR FIELD USE ONLY
B.REQ. CODE
11 12 13 14 15
FIELD
OFFICE
12
XMIN
D.SUBJECT AND AREA
CASE
NUMBER
FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY
A.
FORWARDED
MO. DA, YR
16 17 18 1920
22 23 24 25 26
2724
30 31 32 33
34 35 36
11072
Possible Reactivation of The Central American Common Market/
Labor Not Endorsing Any Specific Political Party
(Honduras)
E. CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address)
Rogelio Wenceslao Cisneros
Relna Trading Corporation, 5574 S.W. 8 St.
Coral Gables, Fla.
F. SOURCE (Name, Title, Orgenzzation, Address)
Same
33
272
34
36
EXTRA
CISSEM.
RECORD
RELEASED
MO. DA YR
37 38 39
40 41 42 43
INDIVIDUAL NO.
45
TYPE CO-E
46
IGRAPHICS, MAPS.
PPLICATIONS,
REPIATS, OTHER
STER
2015
SUELECT
AREA
1. SUFFI
ORGANIZATION NO.
INDIVIDUAL NO.
47 48 49 5C CIENTLY 51 52 53 54
WELL
KNORN
ISST 2.700
G. SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)
NT
ORGANIZATION NO.
419
3. CATA
JMIL SUPPLIED
3
4
BY OTHER
AGENCIES
INDIVIDUAL NO.
H. METHOD OF COLLECTIO
INTERVIEW..
OTHER DOCUMENT
DIRECTED TO
FIELD COMMENTS
CASE OFFICER
TRIP REPORT
OTHER (specity below)
KHeller
Army report
AliEN oss sav INT

FORM
USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

ORGANIZATION NO.
EVALUATION
REQUESTED FROM
USSR ONLY
EXCHANGES
(CHECK UNE)
NO
TO USSR
FROM USSR
HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS
1829295240
41
5 5
4641
RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC
REQUIREMENTS
1143-
E 2 IMPDET CL BY 007622
F.O. CHIEF
MOCsbria:hom MOC BEMAINTARING
FORM
USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS
SECRET
GROUP
ENCLUDED FROM AUTOMATE
4. H. Snitzer
2
120-4

"14-00000"
FIELD
OFFICE
INTELLIGENCE
AORNCY
DIRECTORATE OF
INTELLIGENCE
Intelligence Informatic Report
This material contains information offecting the National Defense of the United States within
the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.SC. Sock 793 and 794, the transmission
or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
CO-N-F-I-DEN-T-I-A-L
REPORT NO. X00--321/33419-72
COUNTRY Honduras
SUBJECT
Horatio Noya Posas, Agrarian Reform
Director/Rigoberto Sandoval in Italy/
His Attitude Towards the US
DATE DISTR.
NO. PAGES 1
14 NOV 1972
REFERENCES
DIEM NO.: 1-7-88
(2356)
DATE OF INFO. October 1972 and earlier
PLACE & DATE ACQ. BY SOURCE Honduras/1972
SOURCE
U
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION
Naturalized US citizen who has worked and lived in Honduras for a number
of years. He has numerous social contacts and business connections with
officials of the government, the Armed Forces and the business community.
[This report was developed by an Arcy representative assigned to the
office of preparation.]
Horacio Moya Posas is the present director of Agrarian Reform in Honduras.
He is inefficient and lacks some of the necessary qualifications for that
position. In spite of him being a lawyer by profession, he is not astute,
is only of average intelligence, is far from decisive, and frequently
vacill