14-00000

104-10413-10306 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Page count wrong. 86 page

14-00000
☐ UNCLASSIFIED INTERNAL
USE ONLY ☐ CONFIDENTIAL ☐ SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:
EXTENSION NO.

Chief, Latin America Division 1431
DATE
13 July 1978
TO: (Officer designation, room number, and DATE OFFICER'S COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
building) INITIALS to whom... Draw a line across column after each comment,)
RECEIVED FORWARDED
1. Mr. Russell Holmes
O/EXO/CI
2.

3.

4. Mr. Scott Breckinridge
Principal Coordinator/HSCA

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.
FORM SECRET ☐ CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL ☐ UNCLASSIFIED
3-62 610 USE PREVIOUS USE ONLY
EDITIONS

14-00000

13 JUL 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Scott Breckinridge
Principal Coordinator/HSCA
VIA : Mr. Russell Holmes
O/EXO/CI
FROM : Raymond A. Warren
Chief, Latin America Division
SUBJECT : Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV

1. Attached is a file folder titled "Yuri" which contains
informal and preliminary research based on a theory that Yuriy
Ivanovich MOSKALEV might be identifiable with the "unidentified
man" observed entering and departing the Soviet Embassy in
Mexico City, Mexico, in October 1963. Ms. Christine Hopkins
undertook to research the theory that MOSKALEV might be the
unidentified man as a result of the indepth study she conducted
as the Task Force Leader of this Division's efforts to determine
if there could have been Cuban complicity in the John F.
Kennedy assassination.

2. Although the material contained in the attached folder
is entirely theoretical and does not constitute an official
file or position of this Division or Agency it may be of
interest to Mr. Blakey and Mr. Cornwell of the HSCA.

3. It is requested that you review the material contained
in the file folder and, if you consider it appropriate, make
the material available for Messrs. Blakey and Cornwell to
review with the understanding that it is a theoretical
unofficial research undertaking.

1 Attachment as stated
Raymond A. Warren

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 12180

14-00000
☐ UNCLASSIFIED INTERNAL ☐ CONFIDENTIAL ☐ SECRET
USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

FROM:
EXTENSION NO.

Chief, Latin America Division 1431
DATE
13 July 1978
TO: (Officer designation, room number, and DATE OFFICER'S COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
building) INITIALS to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)
RECEIVED FORWARDED
1. O/EXO/CI

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.
FORM SECRET ☐ CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL ☐ UNCLASSIFIED
3-62 610 USE PREVIOUS USE ONLY
EDITIONS
Dup

14-00000

SECRET
JUL 078
MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Scott Breckinridge
Principal Coordinator/HSCA

VIA : Mr. Russell Holmes
O/EXO/CI

FROM : Raymond A. Warren
Chief, Latin America Division
SUBJECT : Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV

1. Attached is a file folder titled "Yuri" which contains
informal and preliminary research based on a theory that Yuriy
Ivanovich MOSKALEV might be identifiable with the "unidentified
man" observed entering and departing the Soviet Embassy in
Mexico City, Mexico, in October 1963. Ms. Christine Hopkins
undertook to research the theory that MOSKALEV might be the
unidentified man as a result of the indepth study she conducted
as the Task Force Leader of this Division's efforts to determine
if there could have been Cuban complicity in the John F.
Kennedy assassination.

2. Although the material contained in the attached folder
is entirely theoretical and does not constitute an official
file or position of this Division or Agency it may be of
interest to Mr. Blakey and Mr. Cornwell of the HSCA.

3. It is requested that you review the material contained
in the file folder and, if you consider it appropriate, make
the material available for Messrs. Blakey and Cornwell to
review with the understanding that it is a theoretical
unofficial research undertaking.

1 Attachment as stated
F.
Raymond A. Warren
DDO/C/LA/STB/WSturbitts: esm (X9127) (13 Jul 78)
Distribution:
Orig - Addressee w/att
1 - O/EXO/CI w/o att
1 - C/LA w/o att
1 - C/LA/STB w/o att
E2 IMPDET
1 - LA/CO/CIOS w/o att CL BY 12180
EGRET

14-00000

SECRET
April 1977

SUBJECT: Theory re MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich and
Unidentified Man

That Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV might be identifiable with
the "unidentified man" going into and coming out of the Soviet
Embassy in Mexico City in October 1963. The "unidentified man"
was recently identified by SLIPSTREAM as a KGB type by name of
"Yuri" whom he knew in Moscow in 1964.
- According to travel records MOSKALEV was in the
USSR in 1964.; in the U.S. in October 1963 .

- MOSKALEV functions officially as a Soviet scientist
and often attends international conferences. He
has been in contact with known GRU Soviet diplomat in
the U.S.

MOSKALEV bears a striking resemblance to composite of
"Saul" in book Appointment in Dallas who claims he was involved
in the assassination of President Kennedy. "Saul" claims:
- he crossed border into U.S. illegally and was in
Dallas on 20 November.

- That he had been to Mexico City, had a contact in
Soviet Embassy there, in 1963, and that he knew the
identity of OSWALD because he (OSWALD) had been
fingered to him in Mexico City.

14-00000

2
- that OSWALD was involved in the Kennedy assassination
plot, but that he, "Saul", fired shots that killed
Kennedy.

- that two hours after the assassination he, "Saul",
was out of the U.S. That he used limp as a
disguise.

QUESTIONS
1. Could MOSKALEV be "Saul"?
2. Could MOSKALEV, therefore, be mystery man who
boarded plane in Mexico City to Havana on 22
November 1963?
3. Was assassination a Soviet comspiracy without
Cuban knowledge?

RECOMMENDATION
1. Can we obtain voice tape of MOSKALEV, since he
has delivered speeches at scientific conferences
in U.S. and abroad?
2. If so, could we arrange to have McDonald (unwittingly)
hear it, to see if he recognizes it as that of "Saul"?

Chris Hopkins
LAD/JFK Task Force

14-00000

1. Can we find ,hote that PENKOVSKY identified of
MOSKALEVSKIY.

2. May I see PENKOVSKIY's 201 file for period 61-63?

3. Get photos and check out MOISEEV and BABKOV.

4. Via CI Staff, find out if we can show photo to DERYABIN
and ROSTVOROFF?

5. Could MOSKALEV be Dept 13? Could OSWALD have met with
him in Mexico City clandestinely in 1963?

14-00000

SECRET
26 March 1977

SUBJECT: Juriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV

DOB: 23 July 1920
POB: Iguamnovo, USSR
HGT: 172 Centimeters

Hair: Brown (medium light)
Eyes: Gray

Wife: Married to Vera Nikolayevna STRELTSOVA

Children:

Education: Unknown
Misc:. Became a Communist Party member in 1951

Was allegedly imprisoned during war because
of his German descent or for black market
dealings.

Occ: As of May 1973 was with Institute of Biophysics
of the Soviet Ministry of Health. (Dr. of
Medical Sciences.) Prof.

1922 - Family moved to Leningrad.

48-70- Lived in Moscow

1958 Became head of Division of Institute of
Biophysics, Soviet Ministry of Public Health

1951-53 Head of Patho physiology Lab, Inst. of
Biophysics.

1952 - Last half of year, had a month's TDY at
Biophysical Lab. in Moscow.

1953 - When source (Dr. Wilhelm MENKE ) STIB, left
as Chief of Pathphysiological Lab. at
Sungol in Oct. 53, MOSKALEV took that position.
He reportedly was not well qualified.

14-00000

Personal Misc.
-
1. Very adept diplomat finds it easy to
adopt conversation to group he is with.

2. Excellent chess player, patient with
both adults and children.

3. Has dasha near Moscow.

4. Reads, writes, and conprehends English well,
but speaks it with less proficiency.
Reportedly speaks it much better after few
drinks. (He is careful about drinking, if
he drinks at all, in relation to attending
conferences.)

14-00000

26 Dec 62 - CIA-A-3.246.539
Re International Conference on Diagnosis
and Treatment of Radioactive Poisoning,
Vienna, Aust. 15-18 Oct 62. "Most
interesting aspect of meeting was conduct
ad contributions of Prof. MOSKALEV of
USSR Academy of Sciences. His subject was
listed as "Uptake and Retention of
Plutonium in Man"; no abstract was
presented. When he spoke he changed the
title to "Problems of Kenetics of Uptake
and Retention of Radioisotopes." His
paper presented nothing new and can be
described as elementary. He apparently
spoke no English.

19 Jan 63 - ООВ 3,248,156.
Information from another source on the
above conference. Dr. D. J. SEMENOV and
Dr. I.T. TRUGUBENKO ? were invited to
attend. The Soviets sent instead, Prof.
MOSKALEV. He was bright, but not
individual who should have been sent
representing the USSR at this meeting.
Was said to be his first time out
of the USSR. / CDH coment - not so.7

9 July 63 - DF-440
(PENKOVSKY)
Source: AEDAZZLE-1 (doi 1961) identified
photo (not by name, nor was name supplied)
as that of Col. Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEVSKIY
Air Force Col. and GRU officer in
Information Directorate of GRU who attended
ameeting in London in May or June 1961.

21 Aug 63 - OOB 3,271,609
MOSKALEV participated at meeting of IAEA
panel on Toxicity of Incorporated Radio-
nuclides, Vienna, Austria 4-8 June 63.

14-00000

3
18 Oc2 63 - OOB 3,278,069
Re Symposium in Vienna, Austria from
26-31 August 63. The Soviets sant a small
three or four member delegation headed by
MOSKALEV "a very personable and diplomatic
gentleman." At the end of the conference
MOSKALEV voiced his dismay that the
Soviets had misunderstood the exact point
of the meeting and had presented very
minor papers.

3 Dec 63 - OOB 3,283,411
Symposium on Radiological Health and
Safety in Nuclear Materials Mining &
Milling, Vienna, Austria late Aug 63.
"Due to misunderstanding in USSR, topics
covered by symposium were not known
sufficiently in advance for Soviet
scientists to contribute papers on other
than nuclear toxicology." All papers
were given by Dr. L. N. BURYKINA in
the absence of MOSKALEV et al.

10 Dec 63 -

FRI

14-00000

30 Dec 63 - OOB 3,286,351
MOSKALEV atttended Symposium on Radio-
logical Health and Safety, Austria,
26-31 Aug 63.

23 Jan 64 - OOB 3,288,475
IAEA Symposium on Neutron Irradiation,
Brookhaven, Long Island, N.Y. Oct 63.
MOSKALEV, one of the Soviet delegates
was frequent commentator on other people's
work and made a practice of denigrating
their reports with respect to radiation
lethality.
Sources (3 U.S. scientists) were asked
if they thought MOSKALEV's objectives
were motivated from anything more than
genuine scientific position. They
responded - "Who can say?" MOSKALEV,
both from papers he gave and his questions
and comments in discussion, indicated he
was very sharp The paper he gave
presented no new data. His paper said
nothing specific.

24 Oct 66 - ООВ 321,15482-66
About one third of the Soviets expected
at the Third Int'l Congress of Radiation
Research put in appearance. The papers
were disappointing. A paper written by
MOSKALEV and V.A. STRELTSOVA was not
impressive.

16 Oct 67 - OOB 321,30340-67
MOSKALEV attended the Second Int'l
Symposium on Delayed Effects of Bone
Seeking Radio Nuclides, Sun Valley,
Idaho, 12-14 Sept 67. He presented
an interesting paper. He was not expected
at the meeting and came alone, arriving
two days early. He had furnished no brief
and it was a surprise tohear his paper.
He
understands English reasonably well, but
speaks it less well. Therefore, his
appearance alone at the conference was even
more unusual. He became very interested
in visiting a certain US, facility, and
pursued arrangements to visit it. U.S. Gov't

14-00000

16 Oct 67 - OOB 321,27474-67

5
clearance and permission to visit were
obtained, but he "backed-out" (after all
had been arranged) saying it was too much
trouble for U.S. persons and authorities
concerned.

N.. B. MOSKALEV participated in Second Int'l
Symposium on Delayed Effects of Bone
Seeking Radio Nuclides, Sun Valley,
Idaho, arriving two days early. He
had travelled alone to Sun Valley and
apparently was able to use his knowledge
of English language to get along on his
own. However, he complained to Chairman
of conference that he did not know enough
English to read his paper which also
required condensation because it was too
long for the time allowed. A colleague
who had known MOSKALEV from previous meet-
ings said MOSKALEV's knowledge of English
improved greatly after a few drinks.
However, he did not drink at all during
this conference. He did mention that he
had written the English version of the
paper he presented himself. A respected
U.S. scientisi with nore experience
than MOSKALEV said he frankly did not
believe MOSKALEV's findings. (Said this
in private.) MOSKALEV attempted to
make propaganda of a report by a West
German. MOSKALEV left the conference a
little upset. He took copious notes on
all papers, which indicated he understood
what was going on. He also took many
pictures with a 35 mm camera. From questions
he asked in private, it was obvious he
understood English quite well. Considerable
time was spent in arranging visit to a U.S.
lab. in route to his home. He took a
different route, without telling anyone
of plans, and did not visit the Tab
N.B.

14-00000

-6-
1 Feb 70 -
BE
1 Jul 70 - OOB 321/17309-70.
Fnu MOSKALEV and P.V. RAMZAYEV were
scheduled to attend the Biology & Ecology
of Polonium and Radiolead Conf. Sutton,
U.K. 30 Apr to 1 May 70, but apparently
were not permitted by the USSR to attend.

24 Aug 70 - OOB 321/20573-70
MOSKALEV was among Soviet delegation to
Second Int'l Congress on Radiation
Protection, Brighton, U.K. 3-8 May 70.
MOSKALEV personally attended virtually
every session and was very busy asking
many questions. He asked all questions
through an interpreter, but when answers
were given, in English, he always seemed
to understand without benefit of his
interpreter.

13 Nov 70 - OOA(S) 322/33488-70
Sept 70 MOSKALEV visited a U.S. facility
devoted to research in field of nuclear
medicine. "It is obvious that he is a
careful and trustworthy worker."
Visited Brookhaven in Oct 63; Sun Valley
in 67; and Hanford Biology Symposium 69.

14-00000

24 Aug 71 - U.S. Embassy Moscow Airgram

26 Sept 71 - Science Berkeley Lab. 600254
Four Soviet scientists, MOSKALEV, MOISEEV
NENOT and MASSE, participated at the
same Transuranium Biology Symposium at
Hanford during week of Sept 26. They
were in San Francisco by chance at the same
time and desired to visit Berkeley on the
same day. They did not travel to the
conference together. It all seemed to be
coincidental Drs. MOSKALEV and MASSE
reportedly understood more English than
they could speak. Dr. MOSKALEV was the
USSR's rep. on ICRP internal dose committee.

14-00000

- &
23 Dec 71 - ΟΟΕ 324/37776-71
Dr. Yuriy I. MOSKALEV, Inst. of Biophysics,
Min. of Public Health, visited several
U.S. biological and biophysical research
facilities. During that time it was
learned that he was chairman of the USSR
equivalent to the U.S. National Council
on Radiation Protection. In this position
Dr. Aleksey A. MOISEEV (Central Advanced
Institute for Training of Physicians, Moscow)
was MOSKALEV's secretary.

25 Oct 71 - Letter to U.S. Atomic Energy Commission from

U.S. Embassy Moscow files
BATTEFFE
Pacific
Mirac
Jaboratoria
Y

Chris Hopkins

14-00000

SUBJECT: Passports Used by MOSKALEV, Yuriy
MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich
MOSKALEV, Yuriy Mikhailovich

1957 PP#
Unknown

1962 S-012960

1963 S-022766
S-012960
1964 S-022766

1965 S-022766

1967 0-113459

1968 T-286915

1970 0-286915
S-201222-

1971 S-201222

1972 0-068765
S-201222

1974 Unknown

MOSKALEV has following birthdates:
23 July 1920

17 January 1920
21 July 1920
1930

14-00000

TRAVEL
NAME DPOB OCC PP# DATE FROM-TO

MOSKALEV, Juriy Ivanovich - Chem [Sept 57] USSR France

MOSKALEV, Yuriy 1920 - S-012960 Oct 62 Aust. USSR
MOSKALEV, Yuriy 1920 - Oct 62 USSR Aust.
MOSKALEV, Yuriy 23/7/20 Biol. S-012960 Oct 62 USSR Aust.

MOSKALEV, Yuriy 23/7/20 Phys. S-022766 May 63 USSR Aust.

MOSKALEV, Yuriy 1920 - S-022766 30/6/63 Poland Aust.
MOSKALEV, Yuriy 1920 - S-022766 8/6/63 Aust USSR

MOSKALEV , Yuriy Ivanovich
23/7/20 Scie. S-012960 Oct 63 USSR USA

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 Scie S-012960 Oct 63 USA Denmark
:
MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 Scie S-012960 Oct 63 USSR USA
MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 Scie S-012960 Oct 63 USA Denmark

MOSLAKEV , YuriyIvanovich 23/7/20 Scie. S-- Oct 63 USSR USA

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Mikhailovich
23/7/20 - S-012960 Oct 63 USA Denmark
MOSKALEV, Yuriy Mikhailovich
23/7/20 - S-012960 Oct 63 Denmark USSR

MOSKALEV, Yuriy 23/7/20 Medl. S-022766 9/11/64 - Aust.
MOSKALEV, Yuriy 1920 - S-022766 14/11/64 USSR Aust.

14-00000

NAME DPOB OCC PP# DATE FROM-TO
:
MOSKALEV, Yuriy 1920 - S-022766 15/4/65 Aust USSR

MOSKALEV, Yuriy 1920 - S-022766 10/5/65 Czech Aust

MOSKALEV, Yuriy 1920 - 0-113459 8/9/67 USSR Can
MOSKALEV, Yuriy 1920 - 0-113459 8/9/67 Cam USA
MOSKALEV, Yuriy 1920 - 0-113459 8/9/67 Can USA

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 Prof. - 8/9/67 USSR USA
MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 Stu 0-113459 8/9/67 Can USA

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 Chem. T-286915 4/4/68 - UK
MOSKAEEE, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 Chem. T-286915 11/4/68 - UK

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich - - 1/2/70 - UNNY
:
MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 Biol. 0-286915 2/5/70 - UK
MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 Biol. 0-286915 16/5/70 - UK
MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 - S-201222 11/70 USA Suis
MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 Biol. S-201222 15/4/71 USSR UK

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 Biol. S-201222 25/4/71 UK USSR
MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 1930 - 26/9/71 USSR NXXX USA

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 - S-201222 10/71 USSR XIXXX USA
MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 - S-201222 17/10/71 USA USSR

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanoich 23/7/20 Biol. S-201222 25/4/71 UK USSR
MOSKALEV Yuriy Ivanovich 1930 - S-201222 26/9/71 USSR USA

MOSKALVE, Yuriy Ivanovich 23/7/20 - S-201222 10/71 USSR USA

14-00000
:
....

NAME DPOB Οεε PP# DATE FROM TO

MOSKALEE, Yuriy Ivanovich
23/7/20 S-201222 17/10/71 USA USSR

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich
23/7/20 Prof 0-068765 11/11/72 - UK

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich
23/7/20 Biol S-201222 15/11/72 UK ==

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich
23/7/20 [9/3/74] - Suis

14-00000

USSR CONFIDENTIAL CIA-P-312403
1971.
MOSKALEV, YURIY IVANOVICH.
INSTITUTE OF BIOPHYSICS,
MOSCOW.
S

14-00000
SECRET
April 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Possible Identity of the "Unidentified Man"
Photographed in Mexico City in October 1963

REFERENCES: A. Photos Taken in Mexico City by Mexico City
Station
B. Paperback Boob "Appointment in Dallas"

C. Soft File, Headquarters Information on
Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV, Possible
"Unidentified Man"

1. Photographs of the unidentified man were taken by
our Mexico City Station on 2,3,4, and 15 October 1963, going
into or coming out of both the Cuban and Soviet Embassies in
Mexico City. Copies were provided to the FBI in Dallas,
Texas on 22 November 1963. Although cropped copies have
appeared in various works, including Volume XX, page 691, of
the Warren Commission Report, and the book "Appointment in
Dallas", to our knowledge the individual has never beeni
identified.

2. On 17 March 1977, a former member of the Cuban General
Directorate of Intelligence (DGI) recognized photographs of
the unidentifid man as Yuri LNU, a KGB officer, whom he met
in Moscow in 1964 while attending an intelligence course
there. He said that Yuri, a fluent English and Spanish
speaker, was acting as a trouble shooter for the Cuban group,
about 15, attending the course. Yuri lived with

14-00000
2
the Cuban and Bulgarian groups quartered in the same building
in Moscow. Any time the Cubans had a problem, Yuri would solve
it for them. Yuri was a good friend of Juan (pseudo) a KGB
officer who taught the Cubans about the Agency (CIA) and the
West German intelligence apparatus. Juan told the DGI member
that he had served in Mexico for about 20 years and in the U.S.
clandestinely for about 10 years (specific dates unknown). Yuri
was entrusted with their welfare only, and did not attend classes
with the Cuban group.

3. SE/X travel records were reviewed in search of an
individual by the name of Yuri who possibly fit the description
of the unidentified man. This lead to an individual by the
name of Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV, a Soviet, reportedly a Doctor
of Medical Sciences, who has participated in international
scientific conferences for the USSR since 1962 or earlier.
Although there is no official 201 file on MOSKALEV, there is a
sizable dossier on him in the Central Reference Service. Many
of the documents in his dossier are 00 reports from U.S.
scientists concerning MOSKALEV's attendance and behavior at
scientific meetings. It is obvious that he has a much greater
knowledge of the English language than he admits. His capability
is said to improve greatly after a few drinks; however, it is
noted that he rarely, if ever, drank at the scientific meetings.
It is also noted that on occasions he reportedly was not
qualified to represent the Soviets at a particular conference.
His papers rarely, if ever, were specific, or presented new data.

14-00000
FBI

3
Following are items of interest from selected documents in
MOSKALEV's CRS dossier:

a. In 1961 PENKOVSKY identified a photo (with no
name provided) as that of Col. Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEVSKIY,
Air Force Col.and GRU officer in the Information Directorate
of the GRU.

b. In In December 1963 the FBI reported

c. In October 1963 MOSKALEV was a delegate to the
IAEA Symposium on Neutron Irradiation, Brookhaven, Long Island,
New York. Described by U.S. scientists as very sharp, MOSKALEV
was a frequent commentator on other people's work and made
a practice of denigrating their reports with respect to
radiation lethality.

d. In October 1967 MOSKALEV participated in the Second
International Symposium on Delayed Effects of Bone Seeking Radio
Nuclides, Sun Valley, Idaho, arriving two days early. He

14-00000
travelled aj o Sun Valley and appare was able to use
his knowledge of the English language to get along on his own.
Although he complained about not nowing much English, he
admitted writing the English version of the paper he presented.
MOSKALEV attempted to make propaganda of a paper by a West
German scientist. A respected U.S. scientist said he fran-ly
did not believe MOSKALEV's findings. MOSKALEV took copious
notes on all papers, which indicated he understood what was
going on. He also took many pictures with a 35 mm camera.
From questions MOSKALEV asked, it was obvious that he new
English quite well1. Although considerable time was spent
arranging for MOSKALEV to visit a U.S. laboratory en route to
his home, he took a different route,
without telling anyone
FBI
of his plans, and did not visit the lat.
FBI
STATE
DEPT

14-00000
STATE

4. On 23 March 1977 several identification experts of
the Disguise and Identification Section of OTS/GAD compared
photos of the unidentified man with photos of M Yuriy
Ivanovich MOSKALEV from the FBI, British Liaison, and CRS.
It was their opinion that MOSKALEV could very likely be
identifiable with the unidentified man.

5. Page 59 of the book "Appointment in Dallas," shows an
Identi-Kit Model composite of an individual who told the
author in London in 1972 that he was involved in the assassination
of President Kennedy. The composite of that individual (code
name "Saul"), whose real name is unknown to the author, bears
a striking resemblance to the photos of Yuriy Ivanovich
MOSKALEV. According to the author "Saul"identified the
picture shown in the Warren Commission Exhibit #237 as
having been taken at the Russian Embassy in Mexico City,
either in the foyer or just outside.

14-00000

6
6. The author of the aforementioned book, Hugh C. McDonald,
is the inventor of the Identi-Kit and at one time was under
contract to CIA in regard to the Identi-Kit. McDonald claims
in his book that he met "Saul" at an office in CIA Headquarters
sometime after the Bay of Pigs invasion, and that a colleague
of McDonald told him that "Saul" was an assassin.

7. There are striking parallels between the backgrounds
of "Saul" as given in McDonald's book, and MOSKALEV. For example:
"Saul"
Pg. 7 CIA allegedly knew
of Saul. McDonald said he first
met Saul in CIA Hqs. CIA took
picture of Saul that started
McDonald's investigation.
AGENCY
INFC.
MOSKALEV
According to Office of Security,
McDonald has been in touch with
FILE
CIA in relation to his Identi-Kit.
His states he was a
cleared source of LAFO/DCS - doi
September 1969. (contract agent)
It is true that Mexico City Station
took photos of "Saul" that McDonald
claimed started his investigation.
Pg. 59 - See Identi-Kit
composite of "Saul".
CDH comment: See photos of
Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV. He
bears striking resemblance to
"Saul."

Pg. 60/61 - McDonald states it
was obvious that FBI and CIA
were compromised at the very
top since both Agencies denied
knowledge of "Saul". Noone wanted
i
to hear anymore about him.
Helms, the DDP testified under oath
that he didn't know "Saul."

14-00000
Pg. 69 MeDoma egan his search
of "Saul" in 1970. It began, he
said, with a call from an uniden
tified woman who arranged a meeting
in London and told him she believed
the Russians had a germ warfare
installation in Vozrozdenya, in
the Aral Sea. licDonald obtained