12 December 1967

SUBJECT: SCHLUMBERGER WELL SURVEYING CORPORATION
(See Houma Munitions Dunker - Lease" by Subject firm)

ALLEGATION:

GARRISON has charged
that the burglary of the
Houme munitions bunker was
"CIA-Inspirei." He issued
arrest warrants for Gordon
NOVEL and-Sergio ARCACHA
SITE charging them with
the Houma burglary.

SOURCE:

Enclosure 24 of
CI/R&A remorandum of
7 August 1967.

CIA CONNECTION:

CIA had no connection with the
alleged burglery of the Houma Munitions
Bunker or any connection with the
bunker itself.
However, Pierre SCHLUMBERGER, prezident
of the SCHLUMBERGER CORPORATION, was of
contact interest in 1950 for routine
exploitation as a foreign intelligence
source. The FBI advised they had no objection
to the Agency's interrogating Pierre
SCHLUMBERGER who was an alien. In 1962
DAYSTRON, INC. was acquired by SCHLUMBERGER,
INC. The Agency had a contract with DAY-
STRON for an unclassified item ($49,000
contract for the production of Mark II
limmet mines); Agency interest was classified
Secret. SCHLUMBERGER, LTD. is a Dutch firm
controlled by French nationais. After the
Kerger, it was determined that future relation-
ship with DAYSTRON must be governed by
Agency policy not to place classified contracts
with & foreign firm. In 1963 the same
decision was reaches concerning Agency con-
tracts with Electro-Fechanical Research, Inc.,
*a subsidiary of SCHLUMBERGER, LTD. ENR
dealt in all phases of telemetry. Contact
clearances for other personnel of SCHLUMBERGER
are set out below.

OS INDICES RESULTS:

The SCHLUMBERGER COMPANY was the subject of a nare check in
1947 bec use of a contact request, and it was determine) that there are
mrber of SCHLU PERCER corporations in Latin America which are domi-
nated by French nation:18. SCHLUBERGER has a patented operation for an
oil vell shooting" service which is subscribei to by various oil companies.
The SCHLUMBERGER WELL SURVEYING CORPORATION in Fouston was controlled by
Henri Ceorges DOLL, & French national. Be was of contact interest in
1956 and 1957. Eis wife is the daughter of Conrad SCHLUMBERGER.

139.

In August 1951 the Agency was interested in contacting Professor
Edouard POLDINI, a geophysicist and professor at the University of
Geneva and formerly an employee of the SCHLUMBERGER CORPORATION in
Paris, for operational use. He was to be used as a channel to a Janus
KANTAS who could give information about the fate of the previous employees of
the Jersey Company in Hungary, the production figures and extent of
exploitation of existing oil fields and exploration of new oil fields
together with the names of the officials of the Russian Hungarian Company
who took over the Jersey Company.

In March 1953 the SCHLUMBERGER file reflects that an FBI source
furnished information that one Maurice Henri MARTIN, employed as an
engineer by the SCHLUMBERGER Company, Paris, France, received a letter
dated 27 July 1951 at Moscow from one Biegfried Stefanovitch MOROSOFF,
asking MARTIN for specialized information concerning geophysics. The
letter requested that MARTIN's reply be forwarded to Moscow through an inter-
mediary. From January 1932 until April 1937 MARTIN represented the SCHLUMBERGER
Company in Russia as an engineer, and it was thought that the correspondence
from MOROSOFF may represent a Soviet attempt to resume contact with MARTIN
and develop clandestine relations with him. The FBI conducted an investi-
gation dated June 1953 and determined that Maurice Henri MARTIN resided
at Nod Hill, Wilton, Connecticut and was employed by the SCHLUMBERGER
Well Surveying Co., Ridgefield, Connecticut. Informants advised that
although MARTIN was strongly nationalistic toward France, he gave every
indication of being anti-Russian and there was no evidence of CP activities.

When DAYSTROM, INC. merged with SCHLUMBERGER, LTD., research was
done on the directors and officers of SCHLUMBERGER, LTD. The results
are as follows:

OS indices reflect a record on Dillon ANDERSON, a trustee of
Electro-Mechanical Research, Inc. (a subsidiary of SCHLUMBERGER, LTD.)
who was also a proposed trustee of "NEW DAYSTROM" when it merged with
SCHLUMBERGER. ANDERSON is an attorney from Houston, Texas who was
appointed by President EISENHOWER as an advisor to the National Security
Council from 1953 until 1956. He was considered for a special clearance
in August 1955 but the briefing was not given. He was granted a covert O
clearance in December 1953 and April 1954 for use as a covert associate
on Project LPFUNNEL. J

Pierre SCHLUMBERGER, President and Chief Executive Officer,
SCHLUMBERGER, LTD., Houston, Texas, French citizen, was of contact
interest in 1950.

Charles C. PARLIN, Director of SCHLUMBERGER, LTD., and a member
of the law firm of SHEARMEN, STERLING and WRIGHT, Englewood, New
Jersey, U. S. citizen, was of contact interest in 1962 but was
security disapproved. PARLIN was allegedly the boy friend of Johanna
BEKER who was in contact with known Soviet Agents, ROBERT and JACK
SOBLE. BEKER advised the FBI in 1957 that she received, paid for and
transmitted to Robert SOBLE, OSS information which was given her by
two former OSS employees. She also advised the FBI in 1957 that she

had given a very general outline of her activities to PARLIN ani
it is reliably reported that PARLIN and EMER shared a hotel roon
in Folland in 1957. PARLIN recorrented & Willion bart LANCASTER
for OSS employrent. LANCASTER was a member of the care law firm as
PARLIN and had a long record of Cortunist, front affiliations. PARLIN
in 1956 traveled to Jussia as a member of & delegation under the
sponsorship of the National Council of Churches. De was also the
lawyer for & Swiss & zament industrialist who sola erms to the
Nazis and the Communist countries since that time.

Clark Drouillard GOODMAN, Vice-President of SCHLU-BERGER,
Ltd., Houston, Texas, U. S. citizen, was security disapproved for
use by TED in 1952 and for contact use in 1955 based on his support
of Frofessor Dirk STRUIK, & colleague at FTT, who was indicted on
chere of having been a Communist conspirstor and identified as a
Cormaist Party member. In Farch 1959 the same derogatory information
wis furnished the Contact Office to be considered in determining any
use of GOOD AN. Also, a book written by GOODHAN's wife, Kay Ellen
GOOD AN, was favorably reviewed by the 'DAILY WONER" in 1956.

Jean C. LEGRAND, Vice-President of the SCHLUBERGER WELL
SURVEYING CORPORATION, Pigefield, Connecticut (U. S. citizen,
naturalised Fouston, Texas 1941) was approved for contact use in Kay
1957. Ele file is clear. There is a notation that one Hrs. J. C.
JESSAND, 5319 Fanell Street, Houston, Texas, in Noventer 1944 was
Fresident of the Houston Chapter, France Forever, The Fighting French
Committee in America.

Everett STRAITOR, Sales Manager, Houston Area, SCHLUMBERGER
WELL SURVEYING Corporation, Fouston, Texas, U. S. citizen, was security
proved (CAUTION) for contact use in October 1950. His file is clear.

Daniel SCHIANBERGER, French citizen, archeologist and teacher
t the University of Strasbourg, France in 1955, vis granted sa
over tional approval for use as a contract arent in Kabul in April
1956 but the clear ace vis encelled 20 September 1956. Eis file is
clear. Fowever, in & Tile on Nicholas KAGAK, French financier, and
suspected Soviet agent, which contains detailed study of the inter-
relationships and family connections existing in French firms,
information on Daniel SCEUBERGER is containe¹ therin. Daniel
SCHAU BERGER, & rester of the EU PERCER WELL SURVEYING Corporation,
vas head of the French Archeologicel Deletion in Afghanistan (1948-
1954). An associate of Daniel SCHLUBERGER WAS REoul CURIEL of a wealthy
Jewish banking family in Cairo, Egypt. Raoul and his brother, Henri
CUREN Cortunist chrounds and their mother we cant to Deore
SLME Co lich Soviet ar to Pefected to Pussis. BLATE lived with
the FIER's in Circ. Iso Cilbert PONTECORVO, known Comunist,
relative of the CURIEL family
wus in cont et with Dumento ARIEL,
involved in the Geore DE case. Bruno PONTECORVO, Gilbert's brother,
in the storie scientist wo defected to Russic in 1950, worked for
the Well Surreyin fomor tion, Tulsa, 01hor, from 1940 to 1942 but
it was not own it the SOCU BERGER Well Surveying Corporation is in ny
way connected with the Well Surveying Corporation in Tulse.

SCELUMBERGER end Company and another SCHLUMBERGER subsidiary
Mru, Machine Bull (Competitor of IBK), are connected with Schneider
and Company, 42 rue d'Anjou, Paris. Francois SAAR-DEMICHEL, manager
of Compagnie Internationale de Commerce, represents SCHNEIDER for
the USSR and is a Soviet agent. In September 1961, an investigation
conducted in France disclosed that "everything that takes place in
the Elysee is known in Moscow within 48 hours and the originator of
such intelligence is Francois SAAR-DEMICHEL." Machines Bull is
controlled by General Electric Company of the U. S. and SCHNEIDER
and Company is affiliated with U. S. Westinghouse Corporation
under the name SCHNEIDER-Westinghouse.

The Study in KAGAR's file contains the following additional
information concerning SCHLUMBERGER and Company:

Haurice and Remi SCHLUMEERGER are affiliated with Lazard
Freres and the Worms Bank. Lagard Freres controls SCHNEIDER-
Westinghouse and has a New Orleans Branch Office. Closely associated
with the SCHLUMBERGER's is Charles DOH. DOH was born et Odessa in
1911 and arrived in the United States in 1937 to join the SCHLUMBERGER
Hell Surveying Corporation at Houston, Texas. He became a U. S.
citizen on 6 September 1950. Charles has a brother, Jean, who was
closely associated with Leonard FOURAU, & suspected Soviet agent.
HOUNGU was closely associated with Francois S/AR-DEMICHEL, previously
reatione Soviet agent connected with SCHLUMBERGER and Company.
Charles DOE was approved for Agency contact use in September 1955 es
a member of the SCHLUMBERGER Well Surveying Corporation. His file
is clear.

Roger Robert Henri KENQUET, Executive Vice-President,
SCHLUMBERGER Well Surveying Corporation, Fouston, Texas, was approved
for contact use on a limited basis in October 1950. He had been an
erployee of OSE from 1943 to 1945; was given American citizenship
and the Congressional Vedal of Ponor for his deeds during World War II.

Arthur Henry FPENTROP, an employee of the SCHLUMBERGER WELL
SURVEYING CORPORATION, Ridgefield, Connecticut, was of contact
interest in June 1956. Information concerning his spouse's critical
attitule towerde American customs and institutions and the dominant
osition she exercised over her busband was furnished the contact
office.
