104-10173-10166
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
14-00000
HATCEIAL EEVEENED AT CIS HEADQUARTERS FY
HOUSE SELECT COENTILE ON ASSASSIEATIONS STAFF MEHERS
FILE TITLE/NUMBÉP/VOLUME:
KING, MARTIN LUTHER, TR
201- 760966
INCLUSIVE DATES
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION
ROON
DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED
REVIERED BY
(PRINT NAME)
SIGNATURE OF
REVIEWING OFFICIAL
20 AFE220RIGIN LINDLEY
22 Sept78 22 178 William A. M
2.14
NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REHOVED FROM THIS FILE,
King, Martin Luther (se)
201-760966
14-00000
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
DOCUMENT RECEIPT
SENDER OF DOCUMENTIS)
NOTICE TO RECIPIENT
and Rotum as Shown on Reverse Side
Deputy Director for Plans
CIA NO DOCUMENT DATE
BAY 1958.
ADDRESS OF RECIPIENT.
COPIES
ROOM
ADO
DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT(S) SENT
DOCUMENT TITLE
0 & 1 CSCI 316/01702-68
S.J. Papich
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Room 845, Riddell Bldg.
1730 K Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.
RECIPIENT
COURIE
DATE-SENT
DATE DOCUMENT(S), SENT
ATTACHMENTS
3
SIGNATURE (ACKNOWLEDGING RECEIPT OF ABOVE DOCUMENT(S)
OFFICE
DATE OF RECEIPT
2 M 1958
615
USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS
CLASS
(33)
14-00000
SECRET:
2 MAY 1368
MEMORANDUM FOR: Director
SUBJECT
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Dr. Martin Luther KING, Jr.
1. Reference is made to this Agency's out message
number 94270 dated 25 April 1968 concerning the assassi-
nation of Dr. Martin Luther KING, Jr..
1--
2. On 16 April Roderick Claflin BROWN, a Panamanian
national born 1 July 1917 in British Honduras, voluntarily
appeared at the Department of National Investigations (DENI)
of the Republic of Panama and signed a deposition, the
highlights of which are as follows:
(1) On 26 October 1962 he served as cook/seaman,
aboard the Texaco S.S. Southhampton which docked at Mobile,
Alabama.
(2) While on a shore visit to the Mobile airport
on the morning of 26 October 1962 in the company of two
fellow Panamanian seasen, he was approached by Marvin P.
LITTRELL, owner of LITTRELL Motor Co., 921-25 South Clinton
Street, Athens, Alabama, who after ascertaining BROWN was
a Panamanian seaman, asked if he knew of Dr. Martin Luther
KING, Jr.
(3) LITTRELL inquired whether BROWN was interested
in employment, the details of which were unspecified. He
went on to describe Dr. KING as "Our greatest problem who
16 causing us much trouble." He gave BROWN a business card
to use in the event he was interested in pursuing the employ-
ment offer.
(4) On 28 January 1963 BROWN wrote LITTRELL from
New York City, stating he was interested in a job and
SEURET
ここ
1. 30
14-00000
L
-3-
requested $75 for travel from New York City to Mobile.
On 2 February 1963 BROWN received a reply from LITTRELL,
restating that he had a job waiting for BROWN in Alabam,
but questioning why $75 was needed since the fare was less
than $40 by bus.
(5) After discussions with a relative and friends
in New York City, BROWN suspected that the LITTRELL job
offer was related with assassination plans for Dr. KING.
Therefore he did not respond to the LITTRELL letter and
dismissed the incident until the death of Dr. KING in
April 1968. BROWN returned to Panama in 1964.
3. Enclosed for your information is a copy of the
LITTRELL letter and the Spanish language deposition made
by BROWN, as well as an English translation of the deposition
as described in paragraph 2 of the referenced out message.
FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS:
Signed: James R. Hunt
JAMES ANGLETON
CSCI-316/01702-68
3 Enclosures
WH/2/Panama/G. Hodges:cib
Distribution:
Orig & 1- Addressee, w/atts
Based on:
1- CI/R&A (Dummy)
1
2. May 1968
CI/LIA (Dummy)
2-CI/OPS/DO, watts✓✓✓✓✓✓
1
WH/2/Panama
PANAMA CITY 6180 (IN 97566)
SECRET
14-00000
3
PRIOR TO FILING
SECRET
(WHEN FILLED INT
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap
and forward to RID:
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records
significant action taken or comments requir
ing preservation.
FROM:
RID/
AN
INSTRUCTIONS'
TO: ACTION BRANCH
Il file no and title shown are not proper,
insert proper tile no. below and forward
document to RID/AN.
PROPER FILE NO.
TO
ROOM
NO.
1
2.
LIH/REEL
Wite/PP
5.
6.
WH/COG/EXO
7.
9.
4.03
DATE
Kab
OFFICER'S
INITIALS RECEIVED FORWARDED:
TO: ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE
COMMENTS
2. ce to PROP
sec to c/WH,
1968
1968
15
274
FRES
PPLE FOR FEND
BPUT REST-CE
CAFE (11)
MICROFILMED
APR 15 1968
DOC. MICRO. SER.
8-6- 10.0 routes
to C/WH/F! forritcation.
retainer for LWH/KOG file
10.
16 APR 1968
21/05/2017 28/12/58
C
12.
RI/AN 21/1//123
13.10
T
(10P100
14.
15.
16.
1988
M
APT
Et ils rediify into
FILE TITLE
201-760906
X. funto 19-4-105.
ANE A
PS EST
ABSTRACT
Relarrify
14-4-105
019-004-105
17.
RID/FI
ABSTRACT
TRACE
REQUEST
CATE MICROFILMED
INDER
TLE NUMMANY
DOCUBENT CATE
cop
DOCUMENT NUNDE
...?
14-00000
SECRET TELEPOUCH
DISP NO
UFGA-29884
FILE NO
-NONE
DATE
66 APRIL 1968
MICROFILMED
APR 15 1968
INDEXING
- NONE
DOC. MICRO. SER.
MICROFILM
NONE
to
CHIEF, WH DIVISION
INFO
FROM
3P
SUBJECT
REFERENCE
-CHIEF, WH/COG CHIEF, WOLIME
- COS, JMWAVE
SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREATMENT OF DEATH OF MARTIN
8-7
LUTHER KING, JR., IAO APRIL 1968
UFGA-29877
IN ADDITION TO THE SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA COVERAGE OF THE
MART IN LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION TRANSMITTED IN REFERENCE, THE
FOLLOWING SUMMARY FOR 8-9 APRIL HAS BEEN FURNISHED BY THE AMOTS
?
OM GRANMA, Ο APRIL, PAGE ONE JJMOBILIZATION OF 55,000-
TROOPS TO REPRESS THE NEGROES A THE ARTICLE REPORTED ALL THE
DISTURBANCES WHICH HAVE OCCURRED IN THE U.S. AS A RESULT OF THE
DEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER KING
WN GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE 3 A JUWITH THE ASSASSINATION OF
MARTIN LUTHER KING THE IDEOLOGY OF NON-VIOLENCE HAS DIED A AN
INTERVIEW WITH FLOYD MCKISSICK, NATIONAL DIRECTOR OF THE
CONGRESS OF RACIAL EQUALITY/CORE/. JJTHIS SIMPLY MEANS THAT
NON VIOLENCE HAS CEASED AS A MEANS OF FIGHTING. THE PEOPLE
CANNOT BE TAUGHT TO BE NON-VIOLENT WHILE WE ARE INVOLVED IN
A VIOLENT WAR, IN VIETNAM. NON-VIOLENCE CANNOT BE PREACHED TO
JHE BLACK PEOPLE WHO HAVE TO FACE VIOLENCE EVERY DAY ON THE
STREETS OF THIS COUNTRY. THIS WAS SAID IN A TELEPHONE CONVERSA-
TION BETWEEN RADIO HABANA AND FLOYD MCKISSICK. WHEN ASKED ABOUT THE
POSSIBLE CONSEQUENCES OF THE ASSASSINATION OF KING, MCKISSICK RE-
FLIED - JJI REPEAT THAT WE ARE MAKING NO PREDICTIONS, BUT THE
SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29884 PAGE ONE
19-14-105-
14-00000
SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29884 PAGE TWO
AMERICAN NEGRO IS NOT WILLING TO CONTEMPLATE IMPASSIBLY THE ASSASSI
NATION OF OUR LEADERS, OUR HEROES, AND OUR PEOPLE.
EM GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE 3 A ARTICLE BY JUAN MARRERO ENTI-
TLED, JJTHE AMERICAN NEGROES ARE WRITING THEIR FINEST PAGE OF
HEROISI JJAGAINST ALL THAT AND MUCH MORE, THE NEGROES ROSE UP
TODAY IN MORE THAN SIXTY CITIES. AND IT IS LOGICAL TO EXPECT NEW
PAGES OF HEROISM. STOKELY CARMICHAEL, THE NEGRO LEADER, GAVE THIS
WARNING ONE DAY AFTER THE DEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER KING
JWHAT
HAPPENED ON THE NIGHT WE LEARNED OF THE ASSASSINATION OF DR. KING
IS NOTHING COMPARED TO WHAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN. JJ
RM GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE 3 A JJTHE WIDOW OF LUTHER KING HEAD'S
THE MARCH IN MEMPHIS. THE ARTICLE TELLS ABOUT THE MARCH AND
SHOWS PHOTOGRAPHS OF IT.
TM RADIO REBELDE NEWSCAST, I APRIL 1755 A.M./ A JJA TENSE
CALM REIGNS IN THE U.S. BUT IT IS A PRELUDE TO SERIOUS EVENTS.
NATIONAL MOURNING DECREED BY LYNDON JOHNSON FOR YESTERDAY, U APRIL,
MARKS A LESSENING OF DEMONSTRATIONS WHICH ARE EXPECTED TO START UP
AGAIN AT ANY MOMENT
YM RADIO REBELDE NEWSCAST, I APRIL 1955 A.M./A JJ JFORWARD
WITH BLACK POWER UNTIL CAPITALIST MISERY, THE FUNDAMENTAL CAUSE OF
HUMAN INJUSTICE, IS OVERTHROWN SAID THE SOCIALIST PARTY OF CHILE
IN A CABLEGRAM SENT TO THE AMERICAN NEGRO LEADER, STOKELY CARMICHAEL,
ON THE OCCASION OF THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING.
UN RADIO LIBERACIÓN, I APRIL/1230 P.M./ A THIS NEWSCAST
REFERS TO A DEMONSTRATION IN WHICH 200 LATIN AMERICAN, ASIAN, AND
AFRICAN STUDENT'S WERE SAID TO HAVE PARTICIPATED IN FRONT OF THE
U.S. ENBASSY IN WARSAW, POLAND, AS A PROTEST OVER THE DEATH OF
MARTIN LUTHER KING,
MARK F. EFFIELD
DISTRIBUTION
1
SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29884 PAGE TWO
14-00000
SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29884 PAGE THREE
VIA TELEPOUCH
3 A C/WHD
2 A C/WH/COG
2. A C/WOLINE
SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29884 PAGE THREE
BT
14-00000
(
(.
1
PRIOR TO FILING
SECRET
WIEN FED IN)
ROUTING AND RECORD. SHEET
1. Fill in Soct. 2. on back. Detach back flap
and forward to RID.
INSTRUCTIONS
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records.
significant action taken or comments requir
ing preservation.
FROM:
RID/AL
TO: ACTION BRANCH
If file no. and title shown are not proper,
insert proper tile no. below and forward
document to RID/AN.
FROPER FILE NO.
TO
ROOM
NO.
1.
WH/REEL
104/006
3
Wille /PP
5.
β.
WH/C06/EYO
7.
4.03
DATE
TO: ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE
COMMENTS
KAB 2 CC to CA/FREP
OFFICER'S
RECEIVED FORWARDED INITIALS
APR
15AP 1968
3 ecto, C/WH
ITEATEL PROGRAM
ACEA
限
2,115
Wa
Pac
FAIS
MICROFILMED
APR 15 1968
DOC. MICRO. SER.
AECO (11)
(1)
いまだ
Nancye Buf
9
16 APR 1969
10..
8-6-1еслoutes
Depil ry to C/WH/F1 for retention.
01/095/00 (14) APR 1968
1.1.
ID/EDI
CLOPIDO
14
15.
16:
239
Tec retained for w/Coo file
2.2 12. Ploriclass fy into
201-760966 and
X-neinte 19-24-105.
H
PILE TITLE
Rielasily
19-4-105
ANS FI
PS
ABSTRACT בפאן
019-004-105
C
C
17.
RID/FI
FILE NUMDER IPRIMARY CODE)
ABSTRACT
TRACE
REQUEST
INDEX
14-00000
:
DISP NO
SECRET TELE POUCH
UFGA-29877
FILE NO
- NONE
:
//
DATE
O APRIL 1968
INDEXING, - NONE
NONE
CHIEF, WH DIVISION
MICROFILM
TO
INFO
CHIEF OF STATION, JMWAVE
SUBJECT
CHIEF, WH/COG CHIEF, WOL INE
MICROFILMED
圓
APR-15 1965
DOC. MICRO-BER.
SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREATMENT OF THE DEATH OF
MARTIN LUTHER KING, TAI APRIL 1968
THE FOLLOWING SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA COVERAGE OF THE MARTIN
LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION DURING THE PERIOD 5-8 APRIL HAS BEEN
PREPARED BY THE AMOT S-
QM GRANMA HAVANA DAILY NEWSPAPER OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF
5
CUBA, APRIL 68, FRONT PAGE LAST MINUTE NEWS MARTIN LUTHER
KING ASSASSINATED IN MEMPHIS, U.S.A. ACCORDING TO FIRST REPORTS,
LUTHER KING HAS BEEN SHOT BY A WHITE WELL-DRESSED YOUNG MALE.
४
2.
GRANMA, I APRIL, FRONT PAGE
TWENTY-SEVEN PERSONS HAVE
BEEN KILLED IN THE U.S. AS A RESULT OF THE FIGHTING WHICH HAS BEEN
GOING ON SINCE THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING. IN WASHING-
SNIPERS
TON ALONE THERE ARE 750 WOUNDED AND 4,186 PERSONS ARRESTED.
ز
CONTINUE TO BE ACTIVE IN DIFFERENT CITIES IN THE U.S. THE WHITE
HOUSE AND THE CAPITOL ARE UNDER HEAVY GUARD
GIVEN./
3
7
FULL INFORMATION
EM GRANMA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE "TO RICHMOND TO LIBERATE RAP
BROWN... **/WASHINGTON, APRIL, ASSOCIATED FRENCH PRESS - AFP,
FRENCH NEWS AGENCY AMX LEAFLETS WERE DISTRIBUTED HERE THIS MORNING,
URGING THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF WASHINGTON TO GO TO RICHMOND TO LIBERATE
RAP BROWN. THE LEAFLETS CALLED ON THE NEGROES TO FORM A MOTOR-
CADE AND LEAVE FOR RICHMOND TOMORROW, MONDAY."
SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE ONE
f
570
019-004-105
14-00000
SECRET TELE POUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE TWO
४
4. GRANMA, APRIL, LAST PAGE
ARTICLE ENTITLED
PRINCIPAL
NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS IN THE U.S." BY JUANA CARRASCO. THE ARTICLE
SAYS THAT NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS ARE DIVIDED INTO TWO GROUPS
VIOLENT ONES AND THE NON-VIOLENT ONES. IT MENTIONS THE FOLLOWING
AMONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCATE THE USE OF VIOLENCE CONGRESS OF RACIAL
THE
EQUALITY/CORE/, STUDENT NON-VIOLENT COORDINATING COMMITTEE /SNCC/,
BLACK MUSLIMS, BLACK PANTHER PARTY, BLACKSTONE RANGERS, THE ALERT
PATROL, REVOLUTIONARY ACTION MOVEMENT /RAM/, THE BLACK GUARDS, THE
DEACONS, AND THE U.S... THE FOLLOWING NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS ARE
MENTIONED AMONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCATE NON-VIOLENCE NATIONAL ASSO-
CIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE NAACP, NATIONAL
URBAN LEAGUE, AND THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE
•
/SCLC/
5.
४
GRANMA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE - ATTEMPTS ARE BING MADE TO
BLAME CARMICHAEL FOR THE OUTBREAK OF RACIAL VIOLENCE IN THE U.S.
4.
8
YM GRANMA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE
AND WHITE AMERICAN SOLDIERS IN JAPAN.
7.
8.
UM GRANMA, APRIL, LAST PAGE
IM GRANMA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE
STRUGGLE.
१.
RACIAL CLASHES BETWEEN NEGRO
JOTHE AMERICAN NEGRO PEOPLE...
MARTYR'S OF THE NEGRO
OM RADIO LIBERACION AND RADIO PROGRESO HAVANA RADIO STATIONS/,
710
6. APRIL, UMP A.M. AND 12 NOON - THE CHIEF OF THE MISSION TO CUBA
OF THE SOUTH VIETNAMESE NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT HAS SENT A MESSAGE
TO AFRO-AMERICANS ON THE ASSASSINATION OF THE LEADER, MARTIN LUTHER
KING. THIS MESSAGE SAYS THAT THE CRIME WHICH WAS COMMITTED AGAINST
MARTIN LUTHER KING UNMASKS THE EVIL FACE OF THE RULERS AND RACISTS
OF THE UNITED STATES. THE MESSAGE OF THE VIETNAMESE MISSION IN
HAVANA ENDS BY SAYING THAT, WITH THE ASSASSINATION OF LUTHER KING,
ALL THAT HAS BEEN ACCOMPLISHED BY THE RULERS OF THE UNITED STATES
IS TO POUR CIL ONTO THE FLAMES OF THE STRUGGLE OF AFRO-AMERICANS,
SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE TWO
14-00000
;
SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE THREE
:
AND THAT THE SE FLAMES ARE RISING VIOLENTLY TO PUT AN END TO ALL THE
OPPRESSION AND INJUSTICE WHICH IS FOUND IN THE UNITED STATES, WHICH
HINDER'S THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE MILLIONS OF PEOPLE IN THE ENTIRE
COUNTRY.
10.
5.
OPM RADIO LIBERACION
APRIL, REP P.M.
STOKELY CARMICHAEL,
LEADER OF BLACK POWER, SAID - WE NEGROES MUST ARM OURSELVES WITH
RIFLES AND PISTOLS AND LAUNCH AN ASSAULT ON THE STREETS OF THE
CITIES OF THE UNITED STATES IN REPRISAL FOR KING'S ASSASSINATION.
CARMICHAEL PREDICTED THAT THERE WILL BE EXECUTIONS IN THE STREETS AS
A RESULT OF KING'S ASSASSINATION. HE ALSO PREDICTED THAT THE
VIOLENCE WHICH HAS BEEN UNLEASHED BY NEGROES AS A RESULT OF KING'S
DEATH WILL BE PALE AS COMPARED TO WHAT WILL HAPPEN IN AMERICAN
CITIES.
11.
5
11
5
QAT RADIO HABANA, X APRIL, P.M. A JAHIS KING'S DEATH SHOWS
:
ONCE AGAIN THAT THE EXPLOITED MASSES CAN ONLY ANSWER REACTIONARY
VIOLENCE WITH REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE.
12.
550
CWM RADIO PROGRESO, X APRIL, XP P.M. A JICARMICHAEL SAID
DURING A TELEPHONE INTERVIEW THAT A SERIOUS MISTAKE HAS BEEN MADE
IN ASSASSINAT ING. DR. KING BECAUSE HE HAD BEEN THE LEADER OF A MOVE-
MENT WHICH URGED THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES NOT TO BURN
THE CITIES, NOT TO COMMIT ACTS OF VIOLENCE.
THIS MEANS THAT IT WILL
CARMICHAEL ADDED -
BE NECESSARY TO START AN ALL-OUT REVOLUTION.
SERIOUS INCIDENTS, HAVE TAKEN PLACE IN 35 CITIES WHERE THERE HAVE
BEEN FIRES, SHOOTING, FIGHTING, AND DEATHS AS A RESULT OF THE CRIME
COMMITTED AGAINST DR. KİNG. NATURALLY, OTHER SIMILAR THINGS WILL
JAKE PLACE.
GUERRILLA WARFARE WILL RAPIDLY SPREAD THROUGH THE CITIES
BECAUSE IT IS ALREADY EVIDENT THAT WE CANNOT OPENLY REBEL AGAINST
THE POLICE.
STOKELY CARMICHAEL ENDED THE INTERVIEW BY SENDING
AFFECTIONATE REGARDS TO THE REVOLUTIONARY CUBAN PEOPLE AND THEIR
LEADER, FIDEL CASTRO RUZ...
SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE THREE
اردو
..
14-00000
SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE FOUR
5
7
"
13. RADIO HABANA, I APRIL, P.M. ASJUAN MARI/ BRAS,
SECRETARY-GENERAL OF THE MOVEMENT FOR THE INDEPENDENCE OF PUERTO
:
RICO, MADE THE FOLLOWING STATEMENTS IN A LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE
INTERVIEW - ADR. LUTHER KING'S ASSASSINATION WILL UNDOUBTEDLY PRE-
CIPITATE THE REBELLION OF THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES
AGA INST ALL THE ABUSES OF WHICH THEY HAVE BEEN THE OBJECT.
19.
7.
"
ORM RADIO HABANA, 5 APRIL, P.M. ASSTHE EXECUTIVE SECRETARIAT
میں
OF THE ASIAN, AFRICAN, AND LATIN AMERICAN PEOPLES SOLIDARITY ORGANI-
ZATION AALAPSO SENT A MESSAGE OF CONDOLENCE TO THE SNCC ON THE
ASSASSINATION OF LUTHER KING.
**THE AALAPSO'S MESSAGE TO THE
AMERICAN PACIFIST ORGANIZATION ENDS AS FOLLOWS A WE BEG YOUυ το
EXPRESS TO THE FAMILY OF MARTIN LUTHER KING AND TO ALL AFRO-AMERICANS
OUR DEEPEST SORROW OVER HIS DEATH, OUR DECISION TO SUPPORT YOUR
STRUGGLE, AND OUR DEEP CONVICTION THAT THIS TERRIBLE CRIME--WHICH
SHOWS US THAT ARMED REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE IS THE ONLY WAY OF ACHIEV-
ING GENUINE LIBERATION--WILL HELP STRENGTHEN THE STRUGGLE OF THE
AFRO-AMERICAN PEOPLE, WHICH IS ALREADY AIMED IN THE DIRECTION OF A
1
TOTAL CONFRONTATION.
158
"
7
QIM RADIO HABANA, APRIL, P.M. ASJAGUSTIN /GONZALEZ/
MARTINEZ, BISHOP OF THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH OF CUBA, MADE THE FOLLOWING
TATEMENTS IN A SPECIAL INTERVIEW
MAY THE TRAGIC DISAPPEARANCE
OF THIS GREAT LEADER AT LEAST HELP TO SPEED UP THE ARRIVAL OF THE DAY
WHEN EVERY MAN IN HIS NATION AND IN ALL OTHER NATIONS WILL BE TREATED
WITH THE RESPECT WHICH IS DUE TO THEM AS HUMAN BEINGS.
کو
7
11
"
16
RM RADIO HABANA, Y APRIL, P.M. A REVEREND RAFAEL PASTOR,
3
1
• OF THE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH IN LUYANO, HAVANA, MADE THE FOLLOWING
STATEMENTS IN A SPECIAL INTERVIEW - SHIS BROTHERS, THE AMERICAN.
NEGROES, WILL LEARN MUCH FROM HIS DEATH. WE CAN ALMOST ASSURE THAT
THEY, THE AMERICAN NEGROES WHOSE DIGNITY AND DECORUM HAS BEEN
CRUSHED, WILL COME BACK TO LIFE AFTER CENTURIES OF LETHANGY AND
SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE FOUR
14-00000
SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE FIVE
WILL RISE FROM THEIR GRAVES AND FORM AN INVINCIBLE ARMY.
5
6
GUM RADIO LIBERACION, I APRIL, XP.M. A EDITORIAL COMMENTS
CRITICIZING THE NON-VIOLENT LINE WHICH WAS ADVOCATED BY LUTHER KING,
SAYING THAT THIS LINE WAS INOPERATIVE. SAMARTIN LUTHER KING DID NOT
PREACH VIOLENCE BUT HE WAS THE VICTIN OF VIOLENCE. HE DID NOT
UNLEASH VIOLENCE BUT VIOLENCE NOWED HIM DOWN...
530
ي
RADIO HABANA, APRIL 68, TP P.M. JOHNSON POSTPONED
HIS TRIP. HE CALLED THE CIVIL RIGHTS LEADERS--WHO WERE MORE OR
LESS UNDER CONTROL--TO GO TO THE WHITE HOUSE. JOHNSON APPEARED ON
TELEVISION. HE EXPRESSED HIS ANGUISH AND HIS SORROW. HE MADE.
-INSPIRED COMMENTS ABOUT MARTIN LUTHER KING. THESE ACTIONS AND THE SE
WORD'S HIDE FEAR OVER THE WAVE OF JUST VIOLENCE WHICH IS STARTING TO
い
SPREAD THROUGH THE UNITED STATES. JJAT A TIME WHEN COMPLEX INTER-
NATIONAL NEGOTIATIONS MIGHT BE UNDERWAY, UNDER DIFFICULT CONDITIONS
THIS NEW CRIME WIDENS THE CHASM WHICH DIVIDES THE PEOPLE OF THE...
UNITED STATES AND INCITES THE PEOPLE TO PROMOTE DISTURBANCES WHOSE
FAR-REACHING EFFECTS ARE. HARD TO PREDICT.
THE ASSASSINATION OF
MARTIN LUTHER KING CONFIRNS THAT THE VIOLENCE OF IMPERIALIST RACISTS
i
IS ONLY ANSWERED EFFECTIVELY WITH THE VIOLENCE OF THE REVOLUTIONARY
STRUGGLE
MARK F. EFFIELD
DISTRIBUTION
VIA TELEPOUCH
3 A C/WHD
2 А С/WH/COG
2 A C/WOLINE
SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE FIVE
:
BT
14-00000
PRIOR TO FILING
SECRET
(WHEN FILLED IN)
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
1. Fill in Soct. 2. on back. Detach back flap
and forward to RID.
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records
significant action taken or comments requir-
ing proservation.
FROM:
RID/ER
INSTRUCTIONS
TO: ACTION BRANCH
If lile no. and title shown are not proper,
insert proper file no. below and forward
document to RID/AN
PROPER FILE NO.
DATE
ROOM
TO
NO. RECEIVED FORWARDED
16 APR 1968
f
OFFICER'S
INITIALS
TO. ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE
COMMENTS
WH/7/DR
APR
4060
て
CHRONO DETACHED
OC
C
Steve
5.
Bill
6:
Vetter
R
ED
TAIL POGGRAN
PIN
FINDFA
90
PLEASE FOR FRON
EJA
MYSAT REGE, CO
CSKE IGEN (41)
(4)
PFILES
Rudy
しか
-
CC
)
}
9
C1/DPS/80
12.
13.
Tok
BK
file Kis
15.
Whis
17.
RIHAT
TRACE
REOULST
DATE MICROPILNED
ABSTRACT
INDER
PILE TITLE
Put
MICROFILMED
APR 15 1968
DOC. MICRO. BER.
Please nouta
on peparate
Rofiting slipp
$1
Dick ber
staff after
exfine hos vad
Ciclantz
22-4-16
022-004-016
201-960966
FILE NUMDER PRIMARY COU
YUMENT DATE
COLUNENT NUNDER
HOCA 07012
C
ن
C
MP
4-03
14-00000
DISPATCH
10
Chief, WH Division
INFO
PROCESSING
ACTION
IP
ACCOM
PLISHED
CLASSICATION
SECRETAR
POSLO
AEC FORELING
X
MINDERING REQUIRED
FROM
Chief of Station, Santo Domingo SKP
CAILY QUALIFIED
RELYVARTERS DESA,
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
ARSTRACT
DARVILN
SUBJECT Communist Comments on the Death of Martin Luther King/
Reference to "Black Power" Concept
ACTION REQUIRED: REFERENCES
1. Attached for Headquarters retention are one copy each
of statements on the death of Martin Luther King by the Dominican.
Communist Party (PCD), the Communist 14th of June Revolutionary
Movement (MR-1J4), and various trade unions. All appeared..
in the 7 April 1968 issue of El Nacional.
2. The text of the PCD statement makes reference to the
visit of Stokely Carmichael to the Latin American Solidarity
Organization Conference (LASO), quotes a statement by Fidel
Castro on Carmichael and the concept of "Black Power," and
expresses the solidarity of the PCD with the struggle of
North American Negroes. The MR-1J4 statement, only available
in gist, says that King's death reveals the profound crisis
existing within US society and shows that for the "racist
forces, "violence is the only law and is applied to internal
and external enemies alike.
3. Neither statement issues a call to violence on the
part of US Negroes.
ATTACHMENT:
As. Stated
DISTRIBUTION:
Peila Gaana
Stewart R. PATAKER
Herewith The folslutted
authorca:
3 - Chief, WH Division/atth/w
3 Files
w/att
MICROFILMED
APR 15 1968
WOOC MICRO. SER
22-4-16
JATT
680021
Excluded tres subst:
devetraing-281
Seclassication
CROSS REFERENCE TO
DATE TYPED
DATE DISPATCHED
CS COPY
10 Apr 68
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
D22-4-13
SECRET
HDCA 7012
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
Zor preje
022-4-16-
14-00000
i
Condenan Asesinato De
Martin Luther King
Dos organizaciones izquierdis lencià revolucionaria que derrum
ta's condenaron hoy la muerte del bará el sistema Imperialista.
reverendo Martin Luther King.
En comunicados separados el
Partido Comunista Dominicano y
el Movimiento Revolucionario 14
de Junio dicen solidarizarse con
ol movimiento negro de los Esta.
dos Unidos,
El PCD demando de las organi-
zaciones políticas y sindicales dès-
arrollar actividades en apoyo a la
lucha de los negros norteamerica-
nos..
Por su parte el 14 de Junio con-
sideró que el asesinato del Premio
Nobel de la Paz revela la profunda
crisis en que ha entrado la sociedad
norteamericana,
El PCD señala que el asesinato
del líder pacifista ha tenido justa
respuesta en la violencia desata
da en las ciudades más importantés Demuestra, según el 14 de Junio,
de los Estados Unidos que ha obli que para las fuerz fuerzas racistas la
gado a que el presidente Johnson hnson única ley es la violencia y que ésta
cancelara su viaje al exterior para es aplicada a todo enemigo inter-
conversaciones de paz en Vietnam, no o externo que se revele contra
Dice respaldar la rebelión, y los el imperio brutal.
pronunciamientos del líder negro
Stokely Carmichael ya que él único
camino en los Estados Unidos para
Ubrarse de la violencia de los ma
les que padece ese pueblo es la vio
Entiende la organización política
que la muerte del reverendo Lu
ther King es una gran ensefianza
para los de su raza que sufren la
opresión racista,
14-00000
PARTIDO COMUNISTA
DOMINICANO
(PCD)
¡Nuestra solidaridad plena
con la lucha de los negros
norteamericanos,
como parte que es de la lucha
de todos los oprimidos
de la tierra!
El régimen de los monopolios imperialistas norteamericanos
se conmueve por la acción de los pueblos desde fuera con
Vietnam amal frente, y desde dentro con el gran movimiento por los
derechos civiles sciviles y por la paz, El asesinato de Lüther King,
será presentado como la obra de la mano fanática de un racista;
pero queda clara la responsabilidad de los interesados en liqui
dar la acción civil por la violencia, de los interesados en tm.
poner la mordaza a los reclamos del pueblo que cada vez vez más
Jucha organizadamente y que comprende los objetivos de esa
lucha, de los monopolios imperialistas,
La violencia engendra violencia, Muchos siglos de explota.
ción y de represión han pasado hasta que en los últimos Imos años
el negro norteamerica.comienza a organizar sú resistencia;
y en ello el papel de her King es innegable, de los más altos
meritos, de la mas encomiable abnegación, aunque su prédica
de pas no haya sido comprensible por todos los oprimidos ni
la más aproptada como lo demuestra su su propia muerte.
:
Los negros constit en los Estados Unidos el sector mas
explotado de la clase obrera en el nivel de sueldos, en en la dis.
criminaciña social que asume formas raciales, en la propor.
ción de les que participan en el ejército, en los planes de
seguros sociales; por lo que la discriminación y su respuesta
en la lucha por los derechos civiles tiene características esen.
cialmente clasistas aunque asuma formas raciales, y por lo
que crecientemente este fenómeno es comprendido por las
propias mesas blancas que apoyan los reclamos civiles de la
población de raza africana marginada de la sociedad,
14-00000