14-00000
104-10165-10077
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: CHAYES, ABRAM
DCS FILE

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: DOD
ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE RECEIVED:
April 78

DATE RETURNED:
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME): BETH LICHTENFELS
SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL:

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

14-00000
CONFIDENTIAL

PROF. ABRAM CHAYES

BUSINESS:
Subject is with the following:

A000723 - Harvard Law School, Cambridge, MA.
A-19-91-59

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

DCD-459/78
19 April 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: DDO/ISS/IP/EIS

FROM: Ruth Elliff
DCD/FIO/PAO

SUBJECT: House Select Committee on Assassinations
Request (OLC 73-0986/1)

The following material is forwarded in response to
subject request:

a. DCD file A-19-91-59 on Abram Chayes (on loan).

b. Documents concerning Monica Kramer and Rita Naman.
(Please excuse the poor quality of some of this
material, it was impossible to get a clear
reproduction from our microfilm.)

Ruth Elliff

Ruth Elliff

Attachments a/s

RELLIFF:wfc
Distribution
0 - Addressee
1 - DCD Chrono
1 - Staff A
3 - RElliff
3 - Control
E2 IMPDET CL BY 386090

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES
AND METHODS INVOLVED

CONFIDENTIAL

14-00000
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

upllow
19-91-59

PES-263-77
31 August 1977

MEMORANDUM TO: Chief, Boston Field Office
Chief, New York Field Office
Chief, San Francisco Field Office
Chief, Syracuse Field Office
Chief, Washington Field Office

FROM: Acting Chief, USSR-EE Collection Group

SUBJECT: Case 64574 USSR External Policy - Pugwash Conference
Munich, Germany, August 1977

1. Enclosed you will find a list of attendees (Enclosure A)
to the Pugwash Conference held in Munich, Germany, in August, and
a set of questions (Enclosure B) prepared by the ORPA analysts
at our request. Since the original list of attendees contained
only the last name and first initial of each US participant, we
had to make some educated guesses as to the true identities of
many of them. As a result, do not be surprised if some question
why we felt they had attended. In many cases, however, there was
no question as to the true identity of the source.

2. ORPA has been quite pleased with the reporting generated
by their previous requirements. As a result, they have made an
extra effort to write even more thought provoking requirements.
We feel that the enclosed questions are the best we have sent out
to date.

3. Responsive reporting should cite the current CISL, Objective
Ala and KIQ 90. We look forward to receiving your responses.

Thomas A. Messer

Enclosures: As stated above

APBlake/bjp
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
E2 IMPDET CL BY
476500

Guers

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES
AND METHODS INVOLVED
14-00000

ENCLOSURE A

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

A 199159
Abram Chayes
Harvard University

A 49345
Carl Djerassi
Stanford University

A46309
Paul Doty
Harvard University

A5927
Bernard T. Feld
MIT

A6304
George B. Kistiakowsky
Harvard University

Richard Rosecrance
Cornell University
A124263

A99072
Jack P. Ruina
MIT

A157380
Herbert Scoville
McLean, Va.

A123586
N. Murray Todd
National Academy of Sciences

A28995
John S. Toll
State University of New York
Stony Brook, New York

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTER-

SUBJECT

1321

WARN
INTELL
ΑΞ

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL
(when filled in)
PROCESS SHEET FOR DCD COLLECTIONS
19-91-59

FIELD/
RESIDENT
OFFICE

HBOS
CASE
NUMBER
64574

ORGANIZATION NUMBER
09146
2665976

SUBJECT AND AREA:
Four Papers by Soviet Scientists on Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,
Disarmament, the Complete General Ban of Nuclear Tests, and European
Security
(USSR)

CONTACT: Name, Title, Organization, Address
Prof. Abram Chayes
Harvard Law School
Cambridge, MA

SOURCE: Name, Title, Organization, Address:
Documentary

SUB-SOURCE: Name, Title, Organization, Address/

METHOD OF COLLECTION
INDIVIDUAL NO.
DAY YE
09236

TYPE CO-E
NOT
DISSEMI
NATED

ORGANIZATION NO.
SUBJECT
443150
PROCESSING
ELEMENT
DECO
NOW
51
52

REQUESTED FROM
OSG SHEET ICG
X
TRIP REPORT

OTHER DOCUMENT
DIRECTED TO: ETF CESA OFFICER
FIELD COMMENTS:

Extra copies of
documents to:

JOHN SOUDERS OCI/SRE 7631
MARTHA MAUTNER STATE/INR/DDR/RSE/SEY 4841
GLENN BUCHAN OSR SF25
WILLIAM CHAPIN
STATE/INR/DDR/PAT 6638

AIA-06-01
