2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: Document Number 988-927 BD

for FOIA Review on SEP 1976

FROM: Chief, CI/R&A
2 C 17

TO: Chief, AF
7 C 32

Chief, EE
3 D 31 07

Chief, FE
5 D 31 07

Chief, NE
6 D 31 07

Chief, WE
4 B 44 05

Chief, WH
3 B 44 03

DDP
3 C 20 16

CI/R&A
2 C 17

PSD

RID

DATE 27-865
24 December 1964

For Coordination

DEFERRED

RID PROUESTING STOPPED
PLEASE INDICATE HANDLING

NOTE: This Document of the CA R
of the CS Decur
Desired Handling
For Signature and Release
BY HAND
PLEASE CALL

Easy Printing 201-289248

DISPATCH

Chiefs of all Stations

Chief, KUDOVE

Warren Commission Testimony - Selected Excerpts

FYI

1. The Warren Commission's Report on the assassination of
President Kennedy focused attention on the magnitude of the problem.
involved in the protection of the Chief Executive. As you know, it is
our responsibility, overseas and in headquarters, to render every
support possible to the Secret Service in the conduct of its statutory
responsibilities in the United States, and especially when the President
travels abroad,

2. The circumstances confronting the Warren Commission
produced discussion and testimony on various aspects of the problem
of Presidential protection and on interagency operational cooperation,
which normally do not find their way into the public domain. These
include the acquisition and dissemination of information, consultation,
coordination, and operational interchanges. I believe you will be
interested in the attached extracts of testimony given before the Warren
Commission by U.S. intelligence and security officials. Pertinent
Fortions have been side lined. I commend these materials for reading
by all officers in positions of senior responsibility in headquarters and
overseas.

Document Number 988-927 BD.

for FOIA Review on SEP 1976

FLETCHER M. KNIGHT
201-289245

Book Dispatch No. 4726

100-300-12

Raymond G. Rocca gwh

HQ COPY
DISPATCH

Distribution For
Book Dispatch No. 4726

AF Division
Abidjan
Accra
Addis Ababa 
Algiers 
Bamako
Brazzaville
Bujumbura
Conakry
Dakar
Dar-es-Salaam
Freetown
Kampala
Khartoum
Lagos
Leopoldville 
Lome
Lusaka
Mogadiscio
Monrovia
Nairobi
Pretoria
Rabat
Salisbury
Tananarive 
Tripoli
Tunis
Yaounde

The above listing has been
reviewed in the AF Division.

dw

EE Division
Athens
Bern
Frankfurt 
Nicosia
Vienna

The above listing has been
reviewed in the EE Division.

FE Division
Bangkok
Djakarta
Hong Kong
Honolulur
Kuala Lumpur
Manila
Melbourne
Okinawa
Phnom Penh
Rangoon
Saigon
Seoul
Taipei
Tokyo
Vientiane
Wellington

The above listing has been
reviewed in the FE Division.

себ

Distribution For
Book Dispatch No. 4726

NE Division
Aden
Amman
Ankara
Baghdad
Beirut
Cairo
Colombo
Damascus
Jidda
Kabul
Karachi
Kathmandu
Kuwait
New Delhi
Tehran

The above listing has been
reviewed in the NE Division.

WE Division
Brussels
Copenhagen
The Hague
Helsinki
Lisbon
London
Luxembourg
Madrid
Oslo
Ottawa
Paris
Paris/LCPIPIT
Reykjavik
Rome
Stockholm

The above listing has been
reviewed in the WE Division.

-2-

Distribution For
Book Dispatch No. 4726

WH Division
Asuncion
Bogota
Buenos Aires
Caracas
Georgetown
Guatemala City
Kingston
La Paz
Lima
Managua
Mexico City
Montevideo
Panama City
Paramaribo
Port-au-Prince
Port of Spain
Quito
Rio de Janeiro
San Jose
San Juan
San Salvador
Santiago
Santo Domingo
Tegucigalpa

The above listing has been
reviewed in the WH Division.

-3-

Headquarters Distribution for
Book Dispatch No. 4726

2 DDP
1 ADDP
1 C/OPSER
1 C/TSD
1 C/CA
1 C/CCS
1 C/SOD
1 C/CI
1 C/FI

2 C/AF
1 C/AF/1
1 C/AF/2
1 C/AF/3
1 C/AF/4
1 C/AF/5
1 C/AF/6

2 C/EE
1 C/EE/G
1 C/EE/K
1 C/EE/SA

2 C/FE
1 C/FE/CH
1 C/FE/HULA
1 C/FE/JKO
1 C/FE/PMI
1 C/FE/TBL
1 C/FE/VNC

2 C/NE
1 C/NE/1
1 DC/NE/AA
1 C/NE/4
1 C/NE/5
1 C/NE/6

2 C/WE
1 C/WE/1
1 C/WE/2
1 C/WE/3
1 C/WE/4
1 C/WE/5
1 C/WE/BC

2 C/WH
1 C/WH/1
1 C/WH/2
1 C/WH/3
1 C/WH/4
1 C/WH/5
1 WH/COPS
1 WH/POA
1 WH/POB
1 WH/Plans

2 CI/R&A
1 CI/LIA
1 CI/OPS/AF
1 CI/OPS/EE
1 CI/OPS/FE
1 CI/OPS/NE
1 CI/OPS/SS
1 CI/OPS/WE
1 CI/OPS/WH

1 RID

Originated by: Chief, CI/R&A, Ext. 7468/23 December 1964
