# 104-10179-10143 
# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

ATE : 400
19 AUG 62
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
ROUTING:
2
3
6
DIRECTOR

ROM:
MEXICO CITY
AUG 19 01252 62

CTION: TFW 10

IFO: DDP, CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, WH 7, S/C 2
ROUTINE

IN 47827
DIR INFO SJAN WAVE CITE MEXI 1743

GYROSE
REF DIR 30436 (OUT 66673)
01, 24
1. JEREMY X BENADUM, WHO HANDLES LITEMPO VISA CHANNEL, BELIEVES
PRACTICALLY IMPOSSIBLE GET MEXICAN VISA BY APPROACHING MEXICAN CONSUL
MIAMI OR SJAN. PROBLEM IS GETTING GOBERNACION VISA PERMIT. GOBERNACION
HAS LITERALLY HUNDREDS OF APPLICATIONS STACKED UP ON WHICH ACTION
NORMALLY BUROCRATICALLY SLOW ANYWAY AND ON WHICH GOBERNACION DOES NOT
REALLY DESIRE TAKE ACTION, BECAUSE OF DANGER CUBANS WILL BECOME PUBLIC
CHARGES. BEST CHANCE IS FOR ANY HIGH LEVEL MEXICAN OFFICIAL IN MEXICO
CITY FRONT FOR AMBANG-1 AND FOLLOW UP CASE CLOSELY THROUGH GOBERNACION.
NEXT BEST CHANCE IF A-1 HAS NO SUCH HIGH LEVEL CONTACT IS TO USE
ANY CUBAN FRIEND OF HIS MEXI WHO HAS SUCH HIGH LEVEL MEXICAN CONTACT.
THIS IS USUAL METHOD. USE OF STATION LITEMPO CHANNEL WOULD NOT
24.
NECESSARILY BURN ODYOKE INTEREST IN A-1 BECAUSE HICH LEVEL GOBERNACION
24
24,01
OFFICIALS SOMETIMES KNOWINGLY USE LITEMPO VISA CHANNEL THEMSELVES 24
FOR "PERSONAL INTEREST CASES AND MIGHT VERY WELL BE USING THE CHANNEL
THEMSELVES IN A-1'S CASE. IF BY COINCIDENCE A-1'S CUBAN FRIEND MEXI
HAPPENED TO APPROACH THEM. STATION HAS NOT DISCOURAGED SUCH USE
08
08

SECRET
GRUof S
Excited trem sr
ανατείας επι
csticatie
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
Copy No.

DATE:
TO
:
FROM:
ACTION:
INFO
:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
PAGE 2
ROUTING
2
3
3
6
IN 47827 MEXI 1743
OF THE CHANNEL BECAUSE IT TENDS TO HELP EVERYONE WHO IN ACT" TO
KEEP MOUTHS SHUT AND TO KEEP CHANNEL FROM BEING BRANDED AS :
EXCLUSIVELY JODYOΚΣ.] Οι
24
T
2. WOULD BE PREFERABLE FOR A-1 TO ZRY ON HIS OWN AS INDICATED
24
BUT MEXICAN AND WILL ON REQUEST INITIATE AND FOLLOW THROUGH ON ACTION.
IMPORTANT THING IS THAT ACTION NOT BE CARRIED ON BY A-1 AND STATION
SIMULTANEOUSLY. THERE WILL BE NO NEED FOR STATION TO INTERVENE WITH
24.
MEXI CONSUL MIAMI ONCE VISA PERMIT ISSUED IF NO QUESTION A-1 CAN
PROVE HIS ABILITY REENTER PBPRIME WITH SOME DOCUMENT. IF SUCH QUESTION
32.
ARISES, MEXI CONSUL WILL PROBABLY CONTACT STATION CASE OFFICER 24.
CINODACID COVER ROLE ON OWN. IF NOT A-1 CAN SUGGEST CALLING THEIR
USUAL ODACID CONTACT MEXI.
3. PLEASE ADVISE.

END OF MESSAGE
C/S COMMENT: RE OBTAINING VISA FOR AMBANG/1.

SECRET
6EJUP 1
Escinded tren artanste
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.
