14-00000
104-10192-10284
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

536
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
DATE : 24 OCT 61
SECRET
ROUTING
TO : DIRECTOR
FROM : LONDON
OCT 24 21312 61
ACTION : WI 2
INFO : DCI, D/DCI, DOP, COP, ADDP/A/PRO, CA/PRC, CA/PROP, CI, CI/OPS, FI, FI/NT 6, FI/D, BELL 5, WI 16, WI 7, DD/I(A), DD/I(L), AD/CI, OGC, S/C 2.

ROUTINE
IN 11257
TDCS-3/490,978

DIR INFO CARA CITE LOND 8769
ANDRE ACTING
INTEL DYVOUR.
SUPDATA SOURCE (SMOTH)
TIME FILED 1310Z
NOFORN CONTINUED CONTROL OEL-30,995 CUBA
SUBJ: STATEMENTS OF MANOLO RAY
OOI OCTOBER 1961
PADA ENGLAND LONDON 24 OCTOBER 1961
SOURCE : (OFFICIAL BRITISH SERVICE) FROM "SOURCE WITH GOOD CONTACTS AMONG EXILES IN CARACAS".

IW COMMENT:

NO SEPARATE CABLE DISTRIBUTION IS BEING MADE OF THIS TDCS.
WH/RCO 5| WM/FI/PN | 2 | WE/R 1
WH/RE 1| WM/PACY | 2| VE/GR 2
WM/FI 2| WH/I/V 1
VP/W 1| OS/SSO 1
WH/4 2| VE/2 1
TDCS PRECEDENCE
PRIORITY

RELEASING INFO : PA/PROP
DATE DISTRIBUTED : BASED ON: OEL-30,995
(HP/SMOTH/01)
R.J.M. DELANEY
24 OCTOBER 2244 Z 61 LIAISON:C
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.

3/10.

14-00000
TELEGRAMINFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

SECRET
COUNTRY : CUBA
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
NOFORM/CONTINUED CONTROL
REPORT NO. : TDCS -3/490,978
SUBJECT : STATEMENTS OF MANOLA RAY, EXILE LEADER DATE DISTR. : 24 OCTOBER 1961
OF THE PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT
PRECEDENCE : ROUTINE
DATE OF
INFO
: OCTOBER 1961 REFERENCES: D11257
PLACE &
DATE ACQL: ENGLAND, LONDON (24 OCTOBER 1961)
APPRAISAL : 3
FIELD REPORT NO. : OEL-30,995
SOURCE : (OFFICIAL BRITISH SERVICE ) FROM "SOURCE WITH GOOD CONTACTS AMONG EXILES
IN CARACAS".

1. MANOLO RAY, EXILE LEADER OF MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO
DEL PUEBLO (MRP - PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT) SAID IN .....
EARLY OCTOBER THAT HE WAS FIRMLY OPPOSED TO ANY INVASION OF CUBA,
INSISTING THAT CASTRO'S OVERTHROW WAS TO BE ACHIEVED BY INTERNAL
RESISTANCE AND THIS HAD ALREADY STARTED.

2. THE MRP WAS ORGANIZED THROUGHOUT THE ISLAND AND SUPPORTED
BY ALL CLASSES OF THE POPULATION. IT HAD MEMBERS IN ALL 33
TRADE UNIONS, THE G-2, MILITIA AND THROUGHOUT THE ADMINISTRATION.
RAY ESTIMATED 80 PERCENT OF POPULATION WERE OPPOSED TO CASTRO,
THOUGH MAJORITY WERE NOT ACTIVELY SO. HE CONSIDERED THE MRP AT
PRESENT ENJOYED MORE SUPPORT THAN THE ORIGINAL REVOLUTION HAD

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

TELEGRALINFORMATION REPORT FELEGRAM

14-00000

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NOFORM/CONTINUED CONTROL
HAD AGAINST BATISTA.
TDCS-3/490,978
IN 11257.
PADS 2

3. THE MRP WAS PRESENTLY SHORT OF ARMS, AND EXPLOSIVES BUT THE
POSITION WAS IMPROVING. (A MILITIA CAPTAIN WAS RECENTLY
SENTENCED TO 30 YEARS IN PRISON FOR PASSING ARMS TO THE MRP).
NO HELP WHATSOEVER HAD BEEN RECEIVED BY THE INTERNAL RESISTANCE
FROM THE "SOURCES IN THE UNITED STATES, WHO PROVIDED SUPPORT...
FOR THE INVASION". THESE SOURCES WERE STILL THINKING
INEFFECTUALLY IN TERMS OF A FURTHER INVASION.

4. THE GENERAL ATTITUDE OF THE RESISTANCE IN CUBA TOWARDS
THE EXILES WAS ONE OF INDIFFERENCE MOUNTING TO CONTEMPT FOR
SPECIFIC MOVES SUCH AS THE PROPOSED PROMOTION OF A CUBAN GOVT
IN EXILE. WHAT THE RESISTANCE WANTED WAS FUNDS AND THE RETURN,
BY INFILTRATION, OF TRAINED EXILES, PARTICULARLY COMMUNICATION
EXPERTS.

5. ON THE TIMING OF CASTRO'S OVERTHROW, RAY SAID CASTRO WOULD
NOT LAST ANOTHER YEAR. HE ADDED THAT THE SITUATION IN CUBA
IMMEDIATELY AFTER CASTRO'S DOWNFALL WOULD DE DANGEROUS AND COULD
DEVELOP INTO A. CIVIL WAR.

6. FIELD DISSEM: STATE. CINCLANT, CINCARIB.

SECRET
END OF MESSAGE
NOFORM CONTINUED CONTROL
