104-10291-10000

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEVED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY:

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: PERMINDEX CORP.
ICD DOCUMENTS

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: DCD

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

RECEIVED RETURNED
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED, OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

Permindex Corporation.

CONE 359

PYOR CITE WA 47961
F776.9

TAME FROM SUFFORT (CRANT)
35 RFT 31765, REOUR VA 46669 RPT 45659

CAN YOU TIVE US ANY IDEA OF WHEN AND IF WE WILL GET A DROT DAND
RFT 3 REPORT ON PERMINDEY AND WORLD TRADE CENTER?

A-57621
57621

Chief, Nov York Office
E7%9

30 November 1959

Chief, Contact Division (Support)
New Caco 31785
CASE SJ

3.796 77
ues-59621

Commercial Stair has requested a Dum & aradotrest report on
Periodex Ltd., a visa Corporation Registered in Jern, Jan 1956, and
fte artiliore formed in Rome, Centro andiale Commerciale (World Trade
aster). Se striood that ir, verano lagy, former Prime Minister
Dungary, to president of Paralodex.

of Peraladax. 17-79697

2. Attached is outline of information desired on the two organizationa
If the D & D report does not contain the financial information desired,
vould you please try to obtain this information through your bank sources.

Attachment
Librant:ga
ees
Index

5. M. ABICRAFT
57621

JA CITI YO

UPPORT CHAT FROM DARE
CA1785

-

PERMINDEY
CASE

1. EE THE TO PAPLE FOR BACKFOUND

51 A 1959

3) DAILY AMERICAN, ROMEFONE, 2-10 109 1958 19-15 10% 1958
me2-79499

OVE OF DIRECTOR: L'AMICO MANDEL-MANTELLO ENRICO MA-1DEL-MANTILLO
RECENTLY IN US XU, EPECT TO BE EACK TO N.Y.C. ASCUT 17 JAN 1963
JAN 196
ONE OF OPECTORS AND ALTO DESCRIBED AT IN CHARGE
GE ADMINISTRATIVE AFFAIP

5. ADDRESS: DUFOURSTE 11, BATEL DUFOURTH 11, DATTEN

CAPITAL - I APT 1 MILLION OCH FRANC
OFFICER -

४. 39. FERENC NAGY DR. FERENC NAGY, PRESIDENT

wwe S-79699
FRITZ CHURCH FAITZ CHURCH, V.Po
20
19699
DR. ERNST LIFELOX DR. ERNST W. INFELD, DELEGATE

rise S-79699
DR. ERN'T FEISST DR. ERNST FEISST

IFT ELLE
LET FOLLYF

*BEMY TO CALL I 1956 : 1256.

TALY PLA: TOP A FICK JA IS200 JA 1562

ILL TRY TO COTAL コットン J.TAIL LAT:.
LITTLE LES AVAILABLE 04.
HALED ANY
P
SOURCE: ALFRED BASTH
CHASE SAIFATTA

A-1

79677

Chief, DD/S-CX
ATTY: 17. Charles P. White

Chier, Contact Division, 00
S-77617
CASE 80
H. 596 21

Feraindex, Ltd and World Trade Center
mendua dated 23 or 1959 - 0/00 Case 31785

23 December 1959

you were previously advised, Dim à Bradstreet had no
allable formation on either of the subject concerned. However,
& this office has provided the following preliminary
background our source source suggested that we refer to
Dew York lines, 31 August 1959 and the Daily American, Bose, 9–10
November 1998BR of the directors, and denscribed as being in
harge of atzinistrative affairs, Enrico Mandel-Mantello, ve
recently in the US and expects expects to return to New York City about
17 Jam 1960,
5-79699
A-19699.

3. The oddress of Perainiex is Dufourster 11, Panel (offion
transferred from Born to Basel in 1956). They plan to open a low
York City office in January 1960. Capital: One million French S-79699
France. Caricers: Dr. Ferenc Hagy, President; Fritz Schurch, Vice
President, Dr. Eruss W. Infeld, Delegate) Dr. Ernst Felsst; Dr. Ernat
Fellender.
5-79699
5-29649

4. De vill forward Aditional information on it becomes avail-
ablo. We are also trying to obtain information from the U.S. Chester A-5194
of Commerce and National Association of Manufacturera.

5. If you have any questions please contact Lillion I. Grant,
extension 2268.

LIGrant/ret
cci Index

K. M. ASHCRAFT
ay piew 59621
SECRET

79699

Chief, DD/3-
ATES: Mr. Charles P.thite)

Chief, Contact Division, 00
S-79699
22 January 1960.

A-59612
MHTER, Ltd. and World Trave Conter
our morandum dated 23 November 1959, 6/00 Case 31785

Attached for your ret
retention is a a brochure en subject
nganizations which was senatved by antional Agrestation of A-24
about early Foveaber 19577
HAM also suggested that additional information
ainol fron Lloyd Metahon, now Foteral Judge
Court, New York City, tho was formerly General Coms
for PERREUSX, Ltd. If you via our Hoy York Office to
thie load, please let us know 167972

Ja vo balieva Hr. Crowicy advised you, the Foreign
Department of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce does not maintala
records of individual foreign companies. Cof Courgested that
the World Trade Division, Dept. of Commerce might have some
information which we presume you have already checked out.

4. Please advise Lilliam I. Grant, CD/00, Support Branch,
extension 2268, of further wishes concerning this subject.

LiGrant/fet
ce: Index

MASHCRAFT
Expres filed in alme
