14-00000

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COFFR
Robert Bladergroen:new
30 June 1967
CABLE SECULTARAŤ DISSEMINATION
SECRET
ROUTING AND/O
१.
BRANCH
RS
FALE IN CE FILE 01-300985EC
C/WH/COG 5, Clwit 6
DESTROY
15
NL
KO-ENDER
COMA
06C 2
☑ RID COPY
DIFOR
RLI
V
clci, ADEP

PILE RID
(class.Boutien)
SECRET
PRIORITY JAWAVE
ΚΑΡΟΚ ΤYPIC
AXCLEVE-15
REF DIRECTOR 15805
pacte ona time led
30 15 49FZ
felitel
(reference sumbed
Ipiont
CITE DIRECTOR
5915
ब
1. REQUEST STATION TRACES ALBERT LARRAIN MAESTRE.
2. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE ADVISES HE A FUGITIVE UNDER NARCOTICS
INDICTMENT AND ALLEGEDLY ADMITTED TO ANCLEVE-15 HIS INVOLVEMENT IN
BOMBINGS WITH ROSENTHAL. REQUEST STATION COMMENT ANCLEVE-15 EVER
RECEIVE SUCH ADMISSION FROM LARRAIN MAESTRE.
3. NO HQS TRACES.

END OF MESSAGE

WILLIAN V. BROS
C/WHD

EARL J. WILLIAMSON
AC/WH/COG

RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

s and
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
ق
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICE
COPY NO
3
2
1
14-00000

INDEX: O VES
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X-REF TO FILE NO.
FILL BID
DESTROY
30
ACTION
RET. TO BRANCH.
$10,
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
A
PR
REPROD
LUH CO
ADVANCE COPY
JONTY
RID COPY
............
RS
INFO
FILE OR CSDO, C/WHG, C/CI, Cr. ?, ADDP
TIME
306702204
702284
SECRET 302022Z CITE JMWAVE 7953
PRIORITY DIRECTOR

ΚΑΡΟΚ ΤΥΡIC AMCLEVE/15
REFERENCE: A. DIRECTOR 15805
B. DIRECTOR 15915
:
1. ANSWERS KEYED TO QUESTIONS IN REF A AS FOLLOWS:
A. AMCLEVE/15 DID NOT VOLUNTEER SELF TO LOCAL
FBI. HE DID REPORT TO JMWAVE, WHICH IN TURN INFORMED FBI.
FBI THEN APPROACHED AMCLEVE/15 ON THEIR OWN DURING LATE
JULY 65 AND QUESTIONED HIM ABOUT JULY 65 DEAL.
B&C. JMWAVE INFORMED FBI ON 24 JULY 65 (SEE A
ABOVE)
D. SINCE AMCLEVE/15 FAILED TO REPORT OCT 66
TRANSACTION TO JIWAVE UNTIL 9 JUNE 67, FBI NOT NOTIFIED
UNTIL 15 JUNE 67. CAMCLEVE/15'S EXPLANATION FOR NOT.
REPORTING OCT 66 TRANSACTION WAS THAT HE "JUST FORGOT")
E. SEE PARA 2 BELOW.
F. SOURCES WERE LOCATED IN THE MIAMI AREA ONLY.
G.
AMCLEVE/15 CLAIMS HE DID NOT RECEIVE ANY MΟΝΕΥ
FOR OCT 66 TRANSACTION; ONLY MONEY AMCLEVE/15 EVER REPORTED
SECRET
•
14-00000
:
SECRET
PAGE 2 JAVE 7953 SECRET
RECEIVING WAS $500 FRON ROSENTHAL DURING JULY 65.
ROSENT HAL HAD INSISTED AMCLEVE/15 TAKE $500; TO AVOID ANY
ROSENTHAL SUSPICION OF ANGLEVE/15, LATTER WAS INSTRUCT ED
BY JMWAVE TO TAKE THE MONEY. AMCLEVE/15 WAS ALLOWED BY
STATION TO KEEP THE $580.
2. AMCLEVE/IS UNABLE TO RECALL ALL DETAILS OF JULY
65 DEAL. AMCLEVE/15 CLAIMS HE ONLY PASSED TO DIEGO
(BORGES) TORRES (201-254161) 6 GRENADES WHICH AMCLEVE/15
OSTAINED FROM HERMINIO DIAZ) SANDALIO (201-203040).
BORGES IN TURN PASSED THEM TO ROSENTHAL. (BORGES AND
NORMAN ROTHMAN WERE ACTING AS AGENTS FOR ROSENTHAL).
FRANCISCO (RODRIGUEZ) TAMAYO (201-293114) MADE SILENCERS.
RODRIGUEZ AND AMCLEVE/15 JOINTLY DELIVERED THEM TO BORGES.
JMWAVE RECORDS DO NOT SHOW WHERE DIAZ OBTAINED THE GRENADES.
3. AS REPORTED IN REF AMCLEVE/15 IS CURRENTLY WORKING
WITH THE FBI AND FOLLOWING THEIR INSTRUCTIONS RE ROSENT HAL.
4. RE
REPORTER

AVE TRADES LARKAIN.AMOLEVEVIL
ON 21460L STATING JÓ HOWEVER THAI
LAGAIN INFO IO FBI 2 IO JPWAVE MWAVE ON ON 2143 214
IT WAS ONE DOMINGO CECHEMENDIA C
ACALAME1201-297840542
PARA 4
SAID THATSKALRAIN WAS
-44-8, 2-
"AMCLEVE/15 REPORTED LARRAIN INFO TO FBI AND TO JMWAVE
ON 27 JUNE 67 STATING, HOWEVER THAT IT WAS ONE DOMINGO
E
(CHEMENDIA) ESCALANTE (201-297940) WHO HAD SAID THAT"
1
14-00000

PALE.
SECRET
0-83 3 JMWAVE 7953 SECRET
OF BOMBINGS AND ROTHMAN WAS THE BOSS.
5. WOULD APPEAR HQS JUSTICE QUERIES BASED ON FBI
REPORTING FROM MIAMI. WOULD IT BE OF ANY HELP IF WE GOT
TOGETHER WITH BUREAU HERE TO RESOLVE IN LOCO (INFO HAS)
ANY FURTHER QUESTIONS?
SECRET:
BT
*PORTION GARALED BEING SUCD
SECRET
べ
NNNN
3
14-00000

TO
FROM
DISPATCH
SUBJECT
Chief, WH
DE
Chief of Station, JMVAVE
TYPIC
CLASSIFICAT:0
SECRET
X
AMCLEVE/15 Contact with Frank "Lefty" ROSENTHAL
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
Reference: JMWAVE-7900, 27 June 1967.
WH/COG
PROCESSING ACRO
MARKED FOR
RO INDEXING REQUIRED
ORLY QUALIFIED DESA
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM
Transmitted under separate cover per reference
are copies of three JMWAVE memoranda to the FBI dated 24
July and 11 August 1965, and 15 June 1967. Subject:
Procurement of Arms and Munitions by American Group.

CROSS REFERENCE TO
Gary L. FLUSTIKOFF

USC
Attachments
Memos (3)
Distribution:
- WH/COG
14-2-4

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND
UFCA-27903
CLASSIFICATION
BECRR
BESENSITIZED
File is
23008
JUN 3 0 1967
29 June 1967
KOS FREE
19-133-5-193/4
14-00000
וזוויט
ΟΑΤΕΙ
R.A. Ortman:jeb
WH/COG/NO
7451
29-June-1067-
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
CONA
30
ML
C/LWH/COCGRID.COPY
MESSAGE FOME
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET RET
DESTROT
POUTING AND/OR INITIALS
ΜΑΝΟΙ
INDEX
BSTURN 10
NO INDEX
ALU AO FILE NO.
MFO
FILE
.
201-300985
t
ckl, ec.cz, c/WH6
classificatien
FILE FID
ADAP
fait
plea
(date and time led
Preference member
CITE DIRECTOR 15805
10
SECRET
JMWAVE
PRIORITYKAPOK TYPIC AMCLEVE/15
29 23 07 Z.
:
REF: JMWAVE 7900 (~ 00397)
1. FOLLOWING QUERIES FROM JUSTICE DEPARTMENT HAVE EMERGED
FROM MEETINGS WITH OFFICE GENERAL COUNSEL. REQUEST REPLIES

:
:
SOONEST.
:
A. DID AMCLEVE/15 VOLUNTEER HIMSELF TO LNERGO OR DID
THEY APPROACH HIM INITIALLY. DATE FIRST ANCLEVE/15 CONTACT LNERGO.
B. WHO INFORMED LNERGO OF JULY 1965 DEAL. AMCLEVE/15
OR JMWAVE.

FLORIDA.
.
C. ON WHAT DATE WAS LNERGO INFORMED.
D. SAME INFO B AND C ABOVE FOR OCTOBER 1966 TRANSACTION.
E. WHAT WERE AMCLEVE/15'S SOURCES FOR ITEMS OR COMPONENTS.
F. WERK THOSE SOURCES WITHIN OR WITHOUT STATE OF
G. JUSTICE HAS INFO TO EFFECT THAT AMCLEVE/15 MADE
PROFIT ON OCTOBER 1966 TRANSACTION WHICH HE ATTEMPTED TURN IN
PELSASING OFFICER
-CONTINBED-
COORDINATING OFFICIES
SECRET
مد وع
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
AUTHENTIC AΓΙΝΟ
OPPICSE
COPY NO
2
:
1
14-00000
:
UNIh
zh
DATE
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
CONF
10
PER
classifientien
PAGE TWO
MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COFICH
SECRET
DMDF
NO INDEX
BOUTING AND/OS RITIALS F
10
DESTROY
BSTURN 30
BRANCH
FILE IN CS PILE NO.
RID COPY INFO
PISE
Ve
louse and time led)
CITE DIRECTOR
زهر دوم
PILE BLD
polerence number
15805
ר
TO "THE COMPANY" WITHOUT SUCCESS. PLEASE COMMENT.
2. ALSO PLEASE ELABORATE ON STATEMENT PARA 2 REF THAT "PER
JMWAVE INSTRUCTIONS ANCLEVE/15 COOPERATED WITH BORGES AND
ROSENTHAL BY ACTING AS INTERMEDIARY IN PASSING SILENCERS AND
GERNADES."
3. JUSTICE HAS SUGGESTED POSSIBILITY USE AMCLEVE/15 TO ASSIST
ROSENTHAL OBTAIN ADDITIONAL MATERIAL AS BASIS FOR ARREST OF
ROSENTHAL FOR HAVING POSSESSION OF SUCH MATERIALS. APPRECIATE
JMWAVE COMMENTS.

END OF MESSAGE

OGC Mr. Bladergroen (draft)
C/WH/COG/CICS Mr. Mahoney (draft)
Jacal S. Ententeme
William V.. Broe
C/WHD

Earl J. Williamson
AC/WH/COG

RELEASING OFFICES

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
REPRODUCTION DI 'IER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS P."
clove T
AUTHENTICATESS
OPPIKER
COPY
plea
ר
1
14-00000

INDERIO VES
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO 01-25/11/CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
B-PER TO FILE NO.
DESTROY
TROY ☐ SIC
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
ACTION
INEO
FILE
COD COPY
WA
SECRET 272815Z CILE DOWAVE 7900
PRIORILY DIRECTOR
DESENSITIZED
KAPOX TYPIC ANCLEAVE/15
REF DIRECTOR 14671
UNIT
TIME
☐ 1515-
CELINER
AN
WN/COG
ABSTRACT
INDEX
18 Jum 67 IN 0.0397
1. ANCLEVE/15 CURRENTLY COOPERATING WITH LOCAL
FBI IN INVESTIGATION OF FRANK "LEFTY" ROSENT HAL.
ACCORDS OFFICER STAMP
2. ANCLEVE/15 INITIALLY BECAME INVOLVED WITH
The following Retion da
ROSENTHAL IN JULY 65 WHEN DIEGO EMILIANO (BORGE Sauthorist:
Diziracle
TORRES (221-284161) INTRODUCED HIM TO ROSENTHAL AND
NORMAN ROTHMAN. (BORGES WAS AGENT FOR ROSENT HAL
R.O.
IN PURCHASE OF WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES). PER JMWAVE.
Note:
S1...
IN STRUCTIONS AMCLEVE/15 COOPERATED WITH BORGES AND
ROSENTHAL BY ACTING AS INTERMEDIARY IN PASSING
SILENCERS AND GRANADES FROM HERMINIO (DIAZ)

8 Vill
WH/LOZL
I str
cite
reasons and coordinate
if appropriate.
whilREOC
AN
ABSTRACT X
NDKY
SANDAL 10 (201-203040, AND FRANCISCO RODRIGUEZ
TAMAYO (231-293114) TO BORGES WHO IN ILAN PASSED
THE MATERIAL TO ROSENTHAL.
3. LOCAL FBI WAS NOTIFIED AT THE I INE PUT
AFTER ABOUT ONE WEEK JHAVE INSTRUCTED ANCLEVE/15
TO WITHDRAW HAVING DISCOVERED THAT GROUP WITH WHICH
•
4
201-284/6/
28 June '67
14-00000
:
PAGE 2 JMVAVE 7988 SECRET
HE WAS IN CONTACT WAS COMPOSED OF GANGSTER ELEMENT S.
4. FROM JULY & TO CIRCA OCT 66 AMCLEVE/15 NOT
INVOLVED VITH ROSENTHAL ALTHOUGH AT VARIOUS IIMES
ROSENTHAL CALLED ANCLEVE/15 AND ASKED HIS HELP
OBTAIN WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES WHICH AMCLEVE/15
REFUSED. AROUND OCT 66 ROSENT HAL CONTACTED AMCLEVE/15
AT LATTERS RESIDENCE AND THREATENED HIM BECAUSE
EQUIPMENT SUPPLIED BY BORGES TO ROSENTHAL WAS FAULTY.
ANCLEVE/15 THEN MADE AND GAVE ROSENTHAL 120 PENCILS
AND 50 FUSE DEVICES WHICH SEEMED TO SATISFY ROSENT HAL.
5. AMCLEVE/15 DID NOT REPORT PARA FOUR ABOVE TO
JMWAVE UNT IL 9 JUNE 67 AFTER ROSENT HAL HAD A GA IN
CONTACTED HIN ON 6 JUNE 67, THREATENED HIM AND ASKED
HIN FOR MORE EQUIPMENT. LOCAL FBI WAS ADVISED BY
JNWAVE ON 15 JUNE 67 OF AMCLEVE/15 ROSENTHAL CONTACTS
OF OCT 66 AND 6 JUNE 67.
6. AS REPORTED IN PARA 3 OF REF AMCLEVE/15
CURRENTLY TRYING TO SUPPLY ROSENT HAL UNDER INSTRUCTIONS
LOCAL FBI. FBI HAS PROMISED MAXIMUM SECURITY AND
14-00000
*
PAGE 3 JMWAVE 1920 SECRET
PROTECTION FOR ANCLEVE/15. FBI HAS NOT NOT IFIED LOCAL
POLICE DUE POSSIBILITY POLICE PENETRATED BY GANGSTER
ELEKENT.
7. ANCLEVE/15 CLAINS NONE OF MATERIAL PREVIOUSLY
SUPPLIED ROSENTHAL WAS OF WOFACI ORIGIN; HE ALSO CLAIMS HE
NEVER SUPPLIED ROSENTHAL WITH C-4 EXPLOSIVES.
8. NO ADDITIONAL JMWAVE INFO ROSENTHAL AND
ROTHMAN. NO OPS INTEREST BORGES RODRIGUEZ. DIAZ
DECEASED.
9. POUCHING HOS COPIES OF JAVAVE MENOS IC FBI
UFGA-27888.
SECRET
BT
201-28 16
28 67
14-00000

SOT
28 June 1967
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT:
Luis Clements POSADA-Carriles
REFERENCES: a. Memo for Record, 26 June 1967, by LRH,
same subject
b. Williamson/Henze Telephone Conversation,
28 June 1967
1. In my meeting with the Department of Justice today, I
confirmed that POSADA-Carriles was our man. I outlined the pre-
liminary information we had developed on the transactions between
him and one Lefty Rosenthal.
2. Justice was advised that our information disclosed that
POSADA-Carriles had passed silencers and grenades, to Rosenthal
during July 1965, and that in October 1966 he had furnished pencils
and fuses. I also stated that it was our understanding that POSADA-
Carriles was in contact with FDI/Miami and that it had been advised
of these dealings. Justice was told that the items involved were not
of Agency origin. It was emphasized, however, that this was our
preliminary conclusion and that we would undertake to verify it.
3. Justice acknowledged that FBI reporting disclosed
POSADA-Carriles as its contact but apparently the details are some-
what vague. To make a federal case against Rosenthal because of his
suspected involvement in the bombings, it will be necessary to show
that the items used were obtained through interstate commerce. A
preliminary reading suggests prosecution under Title 18 Section 837.
Out of concern for the allegation of entrapment, Justice asked that
hint el ser
yot the sound.
F
:
14-00000
1
1
we supply answers to the following: (a) did POSADA-Carriles
volunteer himself to the FBI or did it approach him initially;
(b) who informed the FBI of the July 1965 deal - the Agency or
POSADA-Carriles; (c) on what date was this information given;
(d) similarly as regards the October 1966 transaction, the date
the information farnished and by whom; (e) what were POSADA-
Carriles sources for the items or their components; (f) were
these sources within or without the State of Florida? And inci-
dentally were we aware that supposedly POSADA-Carriles realized
a "profit" for furnishing the October 1966 items and that he tried
without success to turn it into the "company"? While I agreed to
undertake to obtain the information requested, I suggested that
much of it might be readily available from the FBI. Justice con-
coded this and intenda to have further discussions with it.
4. Daring the course of the meeting the interesting
hypothesis was suggested to the effect that POSADA-Carriles
might have been "moonlighting" for Rosenthal, and only when he
began to feel the pressure did he start reporting to the Agency and
the FBI.
5. Under strictly controlled conditions with POSADA-
Carriles acting as a conduit, Justice is considering the possibility
of assisting Rosenthal to obtain his needed items, whereupon he
will be arrested immediately for possession. I told them while we
might be willing to have POSADA-Carriles so used we were under-
standably concerned over the adverse comment that our employee's
involvement could generate.
4. On a matter that may be related: one Albert LARRAIN
Maestre is alleged to have admitted to POSADA-Carriles that he has
been involved in the bombings with Rosenthal and to have said more
explosives were needed. LARRAIN Maestre is a fugitive under a
narcotics endictment having formerly resided at 153 East 57th Street,
New York, New York. Do we have any information on this person?
ROBERT J. BLADERGROEN
Assistant General Counsel
OGC:RJB:mej
Distribution:
Original
Subject
1 Signer
1. Chromo
SO
14-00000

Wi
IAMSON NOTES برة
28 JUNE TELOTON
W. HENZE
AMCLEVE
15 currently cooperaing FRI
Became involed R July 65
On station instructions coopérated as intermediary in passing stuff--
silencers and grenades--at that FBI informed
Instructed to withdraw
Until Oct 66 -- was threatened -- asked to make or obtain
At this point he made certain things 150 pencils. Did not tell
station until fairly récently
Then put in touch with LNERGO 6 June told 9 June told FBI 15 June
$350.00
FBI man called up north
15 wants their assistance "to disappear"
Probably not losing a great deal
14-00000

DRAFT
28 June 1967
NOTE FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Telephone Conversation - Williamson/Henze, 1015 hours,
-28 June 1967
1. Station reply sent 1640 hours 27 June (JMWAVE 7900).
2. AMCLEVE/15 currently on Station roles at $350 per month.
He has been cooperating with FBI.
3. During July 1965, 15 introduced to Rosenthal by third party.
On Station instructions he cooperated with Rosenthal acting as inter-
mediary in passing to him silencers and grenades. FBI informed.
In accordance with Station instructions, 15 broke off
contact with Rosenthal.
5. On October 1966, 15 recontacted by Rosenthal. Rosenthal
demanded he make or obtain additional items threatening him with bodily
harm and also complaining previous items faulty. Whereupon 15
furnished Rosenthal 150 pencils and some fuses. Station only recently
advised of this transaction and 15 put in contact with FBI.
6. Items furnished July 1965 and October 1966 transactions
not Agency origin.
7. On 6 June, 15 again contacted by Rosenthal.
8. On 9 June, 15 reported Rosenthal contact to Station.
9. On 15 June, Station advised FBI.
Поте
285
1
14-00000
10. 15 wants Ration assistance in doing a disappearing act.
11. 15% FalI contact now in Washington for discussions re
this case.
12. Re proposal para 3 DIR 14671, Henze's imraediato reaction
this probably Off and we not using much but would want to check it further.
ROBERT J. BLADEROROEN
Assistant General Consel
T
14-00000
ola Fobert Ortmap:now
Laci٢٠
FH/COG/PO
7451/1948
DAIL 26 Juno 1967
CADLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
MPSSACE FORM
TOTAL COPE
SECRET
INDEX
30
Conn
22
CA
MO
RR
GICS
CIOS
BRANCH
DESIDOR
RS
NO INDIE
FILE IN CE FILE NO.
ESEC-
C/WH/COGS
kighalfieatment
SECRET
10 PRIORITY JNWAVE
RID COPY
one
FILE
va
DDP, ADDP, OGCZ
RYBAT AMCLEVE-15
IMMEDIATE HANDLING
1.
!
Idute and sum
27 00 00 2
pelerence
e/wH6, cla, C/F17, C/FL/INT
CITE DIRECTOR
14671
7
ple
3
DEPARTMENT JUSTICE INVESTIGATING ONE LEFTY ROSENTHAL BELIEVED
TIED IN WITH MIAMI CRIME FIGURES AND INVOLVED IN SEVEN RECENT BOMBINGS
MIAMI AREA.
2. ROSENTHAL ALLEGEDLY APPROACHED U.S. CITIZEN NORMAN ROTHMAN IN
DOMREP WHO PUT HIM IN TOUCH AMCLEVE-15 WHOM ROSENTHAL KNOWS TO BE
AFFILIATED WOFACT. ROSENTHAL CLAIMS AMCLEVE-15 SUPPLIED HIM WITH CAPS
PRIMERS AND C-4 EXPLOSIVES ALSO CLAIMS OFFERED TO DISCUSS BACKGROUND
BOMBINGS, WHO INVOLVED, AND WHY, WITH AMCLEVE-15 BUT LATTER INDICATED NO
INTEREST.
3.
ROSENTHAL REPORTEDLY ASKING AMCLEVE-15 TO SUPPLY 240 POUNDS
C-4 WITH CAPS AND PRIMERS BY 1 JULY 67.
4.
LOCAL POLICE INVESTIGATING SEVEN BOMBINGS BUT NOT AWARE
FOREGOING DETAILS RELATIVE AMCLEVE-15.
5.
APPRECIATE PRIORITY COMMENTS INCLUDING TO ANY POSSIBILITY
MATERIAL GIVEN ROSENTHAL COULD BE WOFACT ORIGIN.
RELIASING OFFICEE
COORDINATING OPPICEM
SECRET
Restedottomalle
Con ngrading and
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED,
AUTHENTICATING
OPPIKSE
COPY MO
14-00000
