14-00008
104-10290-10190 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

PRIORITY MUNI
ROUTINE
ARLA FAME OSLO BRIK TESE TUNE MANI BENHEID PARI CAIR ACCA FROG 100R ATHE JIDD LECP ENGO MEXI GEVA ANDA BAHI PRET SING OULT BONG BORR ABIMA AIOI MELA OKIE PRAN LAND VIEN DHAR KHAR HAGU NARO BAGH NEED TELA ETAL MOD KES SJAN ADDI
PEALAND

WORLD BRIEF
(NORORN IN SLANTS, REMAINING INFO RELEASABLE TO LIAISON.)

1. BERLIN: THE COMMUNISTS VIEW AS "OFFICIAL" THE TALKS RETWEEN EANT AND WEST BERLIN NEGOTIATORS WHICH ACHIEVED THE AGREEMENT ON CHRISTMAS POSSER AND CONSIDER THEN A BOOST TO SCOR'S "FRER CITY
Id FOR VEST BERLIN WILLY BRANDT ON THE OTHER HAND PUSGAIDS THEN AS CALY "TECHNICAL" AND AS NO SEYBACK TO HIS STATURE IN WEST GERMAN POLITICS

2. YUGOSLAVIA: //TITE 15 APPARENTLY NO LONGER DEEPLY INVOLVED IN ADMINISTRATION OF YUGOSLAV AFFAIRS. HE HAS EXHIBITED, LACK OF KNOWLEDGE AND UNDERSTANDING OF A NUMBER OF FOREIGN POLICY ISSUES ANTI HAS BEEN DIVESTING HIMSELE OF RESPONSIBILITIES. TO RESPONSIBLE
i : OFFICIALS HAVE EXPRESSED CONCERN THAT HIS FACORTIES HAVE DIMMED

3. FORTTI VIETNAM HEAVY PROPAGANDA KMPOASIS ON. TUS TRIO ANNIVERSARY OF ΤΗΣ ΝΑΤΙΟΝAL FRONT FOR THE LIBERALL os sore LSIKAN

14-00000
PAGE TWO
200ε€ 63,00 472
SIS CEN
90407
GROWLING CONFLENICE IN HANOI THAT INBURGERTS CAN SUSTAIN
(CONF) CR SOUTH VLET-
REPORTEDLY
TUBA: COASTAL DERESE CRUISE USBLUES NOU ARE PART OF THE CUBAN AZIRLAMAY BO CUBAN INVOLVE-
DENT IN THE SOVIET-20 THATED AIR
MIS ALSO IECERAS ING A SOVIET SO-1-CLASS SUECHASER HAS ARRIVED EN CUPAN HATERS AND THO
OTHERS ARS PROBABLY EN ROUTE.

5. US8R: KHRUS ECHEV'S LONG-RANGE PROGRAM FOR DEVELOPMENT OF THE SOVIET CRANICAL INDUSTRY LE TO BE ACCOMPANIED BY RETRENCHMENT
IN OTHER PARTS OF THE ECONOMY DURING TEE WHEY TWO PAR CONSUMER SERVICES, AND SOME HEAVY INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION TO AFFECTED, AND IT SEEMS LIKELY THAT THREE VILL BE A SLOTING IN TEN
RATE AT WHICH MILITARY EXPANDITURES HAVE INCRORASTO SINCE 1900

9 ITALY DUCTS ABOUT THE BORO GOVERNMENT'S VIABILITY HATR SUBSIDED SOMETETULT OF STROSO VOTE CONFIDENCRIT
ANCEIVED OF 170

14-00000

(PAGE THEOKE)
90407
SUPPORT ON 1ER CONFIDENCE FOTY BORO'S POSITION IS FIRMER ESCAUSK OP TRIS AGE OF THE VATICAN'S PRESSUPOR ON CHRISTIAN DENOCA RIGHTWINGERS NOT TO BIRAK PARTY UNITY
(CONF)

7. CUBA THE CASTRO REGIME SWIFTRIFT CS CULTIVATING AFRICA COUNTRIES AB WAY OF LESSEWING ITS ISOLATION FROM THE FREE WORLD AN FOMBASSY IN TANGANYIKA INDICATES THIS. IN ADDITION, CUBA HAS, DURING
THE PAST МОН, КXPANDED CONTACTS WITH HIER COUNTRIES SOUTH OF THE SERABA THERE IS ALSO REASON TO SUURIPECT AFRICANS CON TO CUBA ON SCHOLARSHIPS ARE GETTING TRAINING IN GURURILLA TARFARE TECHNIQUES

8 UK://BRITISH FOREIGN POLICY UNDER THE DOUGLAS-HOME GOVERNMENT INCREASESTEGLY FOCUSED ON KEMPING THE EAST-WEST DIALOGUE OPEN AND IMPROVING RELATIONS WITH WEST GERMANY. BOTH SIR ALEX AND FOREIGN
SECRETARY SUTLER ESPECIALLY DETERISKED TO KERP EXPLORING ARRAS POSSIBLR AGREEMENT WITH MOSCOW
--
A POLICY WHICH PAID OFF HANDSOMEL FOR CONSERVATIVES IN ELECTIONS OF 1955 AND 1059. MAIN OBJECTIVE
BUTLER'S RECENT VISIT, BONN WAS TO SOUND OUT GERMAN REACTION TO SUCR
BRITISH INITIATIVES.//

9. BRITISH GUIANA. JAGAN AND HIS LIEUTENANTS HAVE BEEN ATTACKING
RELEASING OFFICER,
COORDINATIN
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN 1 N AUT

14-00000
90407
(PAGR POO2).
INCARASINGLY VITQICR.
DIVISION AND R TO CONT
OB TRY TO BIOCE
MBANUBILE LAVE
CHING A TENTATIVE
TO COOPERATE COALES
ECT TO ATTA E RACH OTHER FORLICLY

10. FRANCE: PARIS IS TRYING TO PROMOTE TRADE WITH COMMUNIST CHIMA BY HECONTRAGERS PRIVAT FIRMS NLOP ББЫ MARKETS THERE
THERE ARE BUILT IN LIMITATIONS TO THE EXTENT THAT FREECH-CHINESK TRADE CAR GROW, COMPLEMENTARY PRODUCTS ARE FEW, AND CREDIT PROBLEMS
CONTINUE TO LIMIT. PURCHASES BY CHINESE WED SEEN PRIMARILY INTERESTED IN OBTAINING FRENCH TECHNICAL SKILLS. PARIS INTEREST IN CHINESE
TRADE AND EXPANDED CULTURAL CONTACTS WITH PRIPING HAVE STIMULATED SPECULATION THAT SOME SORT OF DIPLOMATIC HOBCOGNITION IS IN THE
OFFING. THIS IS STOUTLY DENIED AT ALL LEVELS OF FRENCH GOVERNMEIR

11. FINLAND: FORECORD TIME LF POUR MONTHS FINLAND I GOING THROUGH A CABINET CRISIS BROUGHT OF BY DISAGREEMENT WITHIN THE RULING COALITION OVER DOMESTIC LEGISLATION A NON-POLITICAL GOWE
2155 COORDINATING
SECRET
SEFRODUCT CATEGO

14-00000
9640
(PAGE FIVE)
CIVIL SERVANTS, HEADED BY ECONOMIST REINO LEHTO, HAS BEKH APPOINT TO SERVE UNTIL THE PRESENT CONTROVERSY IS RESOLVED.
ALTERNATIVE SOLUTIONS SKEN LIMITED TO AGRARIAN MINORITY GOVERNMENT. RECONSTITUTICH OF AGRARIAN-DOMINATED COALITION OR AS A LAST RESORT
CONTINUEJ
GENERAL ELECTIONS. WHATEVER THE OUTCOME, PRESIDENT DEKKORSN DESIR TOLIPROVE RELATIONS. MOSCOW CAME OUT AGAIN DURING HIS TRIP TO THE
USSR.

12. SOUTH КОНКА: PRESIDENT PAK CHONG-HUI'S DOMINATION OF THE RATIONAL ASSEELY INAUGURATED ON 17 DAC UHRER SOUTH KOREA'S NEW CONSTITUTIONAL REGIME MAY TRAREFER POLITICAL INFISFYING TO A NEW
ARIA. TER CONTROVERSIAL FORMER SECURITY CHIEP KIM CHONG-PIL CONTROLS THE PARTY APPARATUR, AND HIS MANY ENEMIES ARE LIKELY TO TRY TO USK
THE LEGISLATIVE PROCESSES TO TRY TO WREST POWER FROM HIM. PRESIDENT PAK STILL BACKS KIM, HOWEVER, AND THEY AND THEIR COHORTS WILL CONTISUN
TO MAKE TER GOVERNMENT'S MAJOR DECISIONS. THE CABINET HEADED BY CHOE TU-SON APPRARS TO RAVE BEEN CHOSEN WITH A MIND TO BALANCING
FACTIONAL AND SECTIONAL INTERESTS AND FOR AN ABILITY TO CARRY OUT
RATHER THAN FORMULATE POLICY. WITH ELECTIONS OVER THE REGIME IS
COORDINJTING IIIGINA
PILIMLING OFFICER
ALIFICATING
١١٤٢١١.
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE PIN 4. PROGRA
Corv Na

14-00000
TO
SERCIOR
DILE INC FILE NO
2
ROUTINE
INFO
(PAGE BIX)
De 90407
A STAGNANT
: DISCONTENT VITU
LIKELY TO SPEED DECISIONS CAN LEO COFFETANDING QUESTIONS
ECONOMY BESET BY INFLATION 18 17 RISIER PRICES EXTERDA INTO TRA
PAR IS ALSO, ANXIOUS TO
8-YEAR OLD KEGOTIATIONS FOR A NORMALIZATION OF RELATIONS WITH JAPAN. (CONF)

13. TURKEY: THE THREE-WEEK OLD CABINET CRIES APPEARS TO HE APPROACHING A CLIMAX FOLLOWING THE PALLJER OF BOTH MAJOR PARTIES TO
BRING MINOR PARTIES INTO COALITION ARRANGEMENTS ONLY A COALITION BETWEEN THESE TWO, PRIME MINISTER INONU'S FEPUBLICAN, PEOPLE'S PARTY
AND THE JUSTICE PARTY, OR A "RATIOBAL COALITION OF ALL POLITICAL GROUPS, REMAINS TO BE TRIED DESPITE THE DEEP DIFFERENCES, AN
ASSOCIATION BETWEEN THE TWO MAT PROVE FEASIBLE, FOR THE POLITICIANS FRAR THAT EXTENDING THE CRISIS MUCH LANGER NIGHT PROVOKE MILITART
INTERVENTION. CONF (CONF)
7/THE CAL)
14. CONGO:
ADCULA EGIES & POSITION REMAINS PRECARIOUS ITS EXTREME JEFTIST OPPONENTS JOINED IS A "COMBITTRE MATICHAL
LIBERATION CONTINUE TO PLOT AGAINST IT FROM THEIR BRAZZAVILLR BASE wonca ScEMAT CRIPPLED BY LEOPOLDVILLE'S EXPLUSION OF THEIR SCV
021047 A RCASIN
SBCI
2
REPRODUCTION OR

14-00000
CPACE SEVENT
ASSY CONTACTS
PING AND ARMS
THE FILES HAVE SENT HISSARIES ABROAD TO SERA
THEIR PLANS REPORTERLY INCLUDE ASSASSINATION OF ANLIVABION OF THE CONGO AND INSTIGATIO
૮ રે
LEOPOLOVILLE LEADERS
A COUP BY THE CONGO ARMY THE WEAKNESS OF THE LEOPOLDVILLE MEGTE
ESPECIALLY THE QUESTIONABLE RELIABILITY OF GENERAL MOBUTU STARMY....
CLEARLY ENHANCES THE CHL PROSPECTS LAST MONTH HOBUTU AND SURETE
OTKY NENDARA THE REGIME'S TWO KEYSTONES WRRE WAYLAYED BY SOLDIERG
AND FRARLY BILLED STUDENT AGITATION MAY BECOME A FACTOR IN VIEW OF
IR CLOSE COMMSCTIONS TO STUDENT GROUPS OF TWO HIGH OFFICIALS RECENTLY
OUSTED FOREIGN MINISTER MABIKA-KALANDA AND LONDON CHARGER THOMAS
KANZA INVEST DELIFEPATIONS TOWARD WRITING CONSTITUTION
ROVINCIAL GALOOSE ARRANGEMENT APPEAR STRONGES
A STRONG CENTRAL GOVERNMEN
RIGHT AND NEUTRALIST MILITARY
ECENT SIACESSE CENTRAL AND NORTRERN LAOS ARE
ING SOVES AIMED AT CAY
INSIDES IN
REBRIGED LENG KROUT
COMMUNIST SUPPL.
D
PTHAM
CONT

14-00000
:
CIOR
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
HUINCE NO
INDO
(PANG BIGHT)
--
90407
HAVE RECAPITIS THE BEY ROAD JUNCTION OF LAK SAC, DSTER اقة
ТИВ САРАВILITY TO MAKE SHARP COUNTERBOVES ELSEWHERE. THE CONTINUING MILITARY HEGOTIATIONS
PATHET LAO AND NEUTRALIST PACTIONS HAVE OKEN MARKED BY ACRIMONI EXCHANGES, EST THE PATEẤT LAO HAVE
KXPRESSED NKU INTEREST IN ARRANGING A MEETING THEIR CHIRP PARNCE SOUPHARNOUVONG AND PREMIER SOUVVANHA PHOMAS TO ARRANGE FOR
FULL PATEST LAO PARTICIPATION IN THE COALITION GOVARDERETT COUP FIRIORS.
MOSTLY CENTERING OF PLANS BY RIGHT-WING HILITARY ELITEITS ALLIED WITH THE SAMANIKONE CLAN, CONTINUE TO CIRCULATE IN VIENTIANE.
