104-10172-10279
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

714-1

REF: OFH-4656, 18 June 1965

1. Concerning as part of Section 12 of the CPR on Mikhail Vasilyevich KURIACHEV (201-205139), forwarded with reference, are the following entries: Station would like to clarify
some of the information previously reported by the Station which undoubtedly has led Headquarters to the conclusion contained in the second paragraph immediately below.

When told that Subject (Mikhail Vasilyevich KURIACHEV 201-205139) has been posted to Finland, Sommer (a Soviet defector) commented that Subject (JRASHOV) could probably be responsible for penetrating the police.

(This speculation by Source is probably not correct since this responsibility belongs to Petr Nikitovich SAVALVEY, who arrived in Helsinki about the same time that Subject did, to replace Ivan Yefimovich SERGEYEV.)

2. Petr Nikitovich SAVALVEY (201-140400), Counsellor of Embassy and head of the Press Section. SAVALVEY filled the Counsellor slot vacated by Vasiliy Vasilievich SOLOKO (201-142338) who dealt with trade. We do not recall the Chief of the Press Section prior to SAVALVEY's arrival, however, SAVALVEY is NOT the replacement for Ivan ANNOYEV (201-259447) as stated in CS 75447, 13 February 1962.

3. We doubt very much that SAVALVEY was involved in police penetration. His contacts in Finland (also in Norway) were for the most part with the press (2610, 22 Nov 1964, etc.) and he circulated freely in that medium. Considering his work. Since SAVALVEY did not speak Finnish, despite the fact the HELINKI informed us he spoke fairly good Finnish (CS-5447) which was probably an initial assessment on their part.

4. Although a CD suspect during his tour in Norway, his

DATE TYPED
15 July 1965
DATE DISPATCHED

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
22-07331
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
201-140400

(Galub Grigoriy) Ye.

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
SECRE

activities in Helsinki at first appeared to be those of a KGB CO-optee, and later more obviously those of a KGB officer in the CA field. Walter R. GASSMANN's contacts with SAVALVEY took place either in press circles or in the presence of Aleksey SHUMAROV (201-205095) whom we suspect of being the deputy rezident in Helsinki. Thus the milieu in which SAVALVEY operated, we tend to place him in the 2US category rather than in CA.

5. SAVALVEY, who left for home leave on 10 July 1964 and never returned, was replaced by NGS officer Albert AKULOV (201-232590), first secretary and press attache.

6. Concerning Ivan Yefimovich SERGEYEV (201-259447), SERGEYEV replaced NGS officer Gregory Ye. GOLD (201-150156), Chief of the Consular Section. After the defection of ANISIMOV, this Section was in confusion and the exact slot-for-slot replacements are not known. In our best judgment, SERGEYEV was replaced by Anatoliy PAVLOV (201-331811) who departed 2 March 1963 because of ill health. PAVLOV was temporarily replaced by an officer Denis Vasilyevich PERELETOV ostensibly assigned to the Cultural Section (22QFLA-6083, 6 March 1964) who departed 31 March 1964 also because of ill health. PERELETOV was replaced for consular responsibilities by KGB officer Feliks Dmitryevich KARASEV (201-736991).

Distribution:
3 - WE
2 - SR

OLIVIA R. CLENICK
