14-00000
104-10180-10138
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ROUTING AND .CORD SHEET

FROM: TSD/SAB
   4200 Aain. Bldg.

TO | ROOM NO. | DATE | OFFICERS INITIALS | COMMENTS
---|---|---|---|---
1. AC/TSD/TA |  |  | 
2.  |  |  |  |
3. TSD/SRS |  | 22 JUN 1960 |  |
4.  |  |  |  |
5. WH/4/FI |  |  | Coordinated by phone |
6.  |  |  |  |
7. RI/DP | 1308 L | 23 JUN 1960 |  |
8.  |  |  |  |
9.  |  |  |  |
10. TSD/SRS |  |  |  |
11.  |  |  |  |
12.  |  |  |  |
13.  |  |  |  |
14.  |  |  |  |
15.  |  |  |  |
16.  |  |  |  |
17. |  |  |  |
:
18. |  |  |  |

COORDINATING OFFICERS | AUTHENCATING OFFICER
---|---
NAME: Ralph Seehafer | NAME: C. REID 
OFFICE: WH/4/FI | TITLE: C/TSD/SAB

RELEASING OFFICER
NAME: K. CRAVEN | TITLE: AC/TSD/TA

ENCLOSURE | FILE NUMBER
---|---
ABSTRACT: 08
INDEX: 2014274049

DATE NICROFILMED | DOCUMENT CATE | DOCUMENT NUMBER
---|---|---
 |  | H0-3523

14-00000

FROM : Chief of Station, Havana | PRIORITY
TO : Chief, KURIOT | CATE: 23 JUN 190
SUBJ: AQUATIC/Operational | REF: AC: 403-COK C
        SW Supplies for AYTRE | HARS FOR INDE GIG
 | NO MOCKS REQUIRED
 | IRGENDIG
 | LY QUALIF2120830LY
SEGBCE: JAVA - 1999, 17 June 1960

1. The supplies and instructions needed to establish two-way SW
correspondence with AMIRE 1 are transmitted herewith. We realize that some a
the instruction forms and supplies which are being transmitied are duplicates
of those sent to the Station in support of other operations. Powever, in order
to facilitate the handling of each operation, the supplies for ench are
furnished as a complete unit. This will preclude the need for berroving from
one agent's supplies to outfit another.

2. AMIRE will write to the Case Officer, using carbon system Two unused sheets of carbon should be issued to the agent for this
purpose. He should be told to store them separately to avoid accidental loss
of his writing system. His carbon system is developed by means of tablet
#30607. A supply of the developer material, in quantities sufficient for
training purposes, accompanies this dispatch.

3. According to the operational plan, SW messages written by
vill be mailed to accommodation addresses in various Latin American countries.
In accordance with that, KURIOT will provide the appropriate (Will Field Stations)
with the materials necessary for developing the operational messages.

4. AMERE l will develop the SW messages he receives by means of pill 99
#58838. Ne should be issued twenty pills #58838 for that purpose. It is
recommended that the agent be told to hide his developer materials in a safe
place. This should not present much of a problem vecnuse the pills are small. We do not generally recommend that (pills be camouflaged as medicines. Even in cases where the SW ingredient (does have a bona fide medicinal usoge,
the concentration represented by the SW pill would usually be in excess of the cormal dosrge, and thus there would be a danger of having an unwitting person
use them by accident If the Cuse Officer feels that for operational reasons
it is desirable to camouflage then as medicines) they should only be kept in a
bottle which is clearly marked FOR REAL US ONLY)

5. According to the operational plan, the Jace to egent S presages will
be prepared for the Area Division by KURIOT at Headquarters. The Area Division
will pouch the  messages es "blank" sheets of stationery the appropriate
Field Station for application of the cover test nad Lailing

6. The Al Case Oficer should faatliarize himself with the
accompanying supplies and instructions before any attempt is made to trein and
issue supplies to the agent. Experience has shova that it is advisable to plan
for two or three chort (2 hour) agent training sessions scheduled over e period
of days, rather then to attempt to cran the training into one long session.
Lic-associating

7. Special attention should be given to planning the cover correspondence.
It is usually recommended tiet the agent use false use and return address on
his SW messages to the Scetion, thereby dic-associating hinsels) completely
from his si reports once they are in the tail channel. This requires that the
correspondence be fictional, and entails a certain count of skill on the part
of AIR Plin fabricatin; apparently macent correspondence tie have found
that the use of a false postal identity frequently provides the agent with
considerable psychological recosurance during the course of the operation.

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
PRIORITY

14-00000
3. The cover/
/t
