14-00000
104-10169-10139 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

:
ΒΕΡΑΛΑΤΕ COVER ATTACT TO
200-1400431 Jamary 1968
C
DENTITY & La Mr. Jease Brem, & security officer
Free Headquarters.
INDAL

14-00000
:
CONF ANTIAL
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
UNCLASSIFID
NAL
ONLY
SULECT:

WOM
;
10
1.
1.
9.
10.
SE/DCOP
Burop
"43세의
ACSREI/P
DE/SR
11.
CSR/CI
12.
13.
14.
BAN
FORWARDED
EGOT-14004
31 Jau 62
OMCER'S COMMENTS com.
INSTIALS
3ニュ
-
1/10 Flessenile load
2/65/15803
Vist
2
Pedro
BENTHAM
The statem
about Berlin
true?
و
5-6: stre mot, and 2
Lave so informed Q.
sad: Infeest right
appreciate a wond
possibly to the effent that we
RYBAT:
you,
স
dong a good
jot but an even m
ingprased by the Letoile.
15.
PORM
019"
UNCLASSIFIED
В. А ФОТЕХЛЫENT PROITING OFFICE 1900-1
BORTIONS
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
i

14-00000
CONF ANTIAL
XSECRET
UNCLASSIFIED
RNAL
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
SUBIECT:samut
FROIL
10
DATE
EGOT-1400K
3. Jau 62
1,
8.
7.
10.
40182
SR/reop
이즈미의
ACSRET/P
DESR
۱۱.
eselez
12.
13.
14.
COMMENTS Merchant to show how
whow Drowe tee
DATE
OFFICER'S
INITIALS
SEEMED FORWARDED
3ニュッ
14 20 lease note lost
2/65/15
15
mand Prom
the statement
about Berliin
true?
5-6: stis mit, and d
Lave so informed Q,
sad: I suggest cos might
ajgiraciste a word foran you,
possibly to the effect that we
won
dong a good
job bat ne vi
ingprassed Sly the detaine.
RETURN TO CI
Background Use
Do Not Reprod
15.
FORM
610 UMHOUS
FDITIONS
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED
V. A, GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1987

14-00000
A
EGOT-1400م
HEADGAJANTERS FILE NO
DISPATCH
RYBAT
SECRET
TO
Chief, E (ATIN: Matthew L. CARSON)
Chief, SH (ATTN: Therman O. CUSICK)
Chief, E (ATTN: Leopard P. SACKET)
FROM
CATE
Chief of Station, Germany
SULECT
ADMINISTRATIVE
Handling of a Soviet Defector
ACTION REQUIRED
See below.
REFERENCERS
31 Jamary 1962
RE 43-3
CHECKY ONE)
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEUNG REQUIRED
INDEUNG CAN BE JUDGED
BY QUAIRED HO. DESK ONLY
1. I suggest that the story of ABLADLE, from the moment he walked into the
home of Martin A. HOODINE until he was safely under alihaka custody in the United
States, deserves compiling, analysis, and publication in the form of an Opera-
tional Aid. It richly illustrates the many problems nich must and can be sur-
mounted, and could be highly instructive to Chiefs of Station in all countries
where the next Soviet defcator aight appear.
2. Here is the Frankfurt contribution (written at my request) to such a
compilation: a eliffhanger from start to finien, but also acumentary on the
many types of problems which can arise, and the foot tint it takes hard work and
skillful improvisation to solve them. it was a cliffhanger both before and after
the Frankfurt chapter (1 nominate HOUDING for a modal for his part) and ought to
nake excellent reading.
02
3. The handling of defectors obviously is not a new responsibility to the
German Station. The (ChicZONE facility which existe primarily for the receipt,
establishcent of bona fides, debriefing, and resettlesont of defectors bas existed
here for the last decade. Hor in the movement by black evacuation-of-operational
personnel a unique task for us to perform. We have acumplished this many times
by use of our o integrated DUNIT facility and also by the furnioning of alias
documentation to the person of interest and accomplishing the transport via
scheduled NATS flights. The significant points which made the ARLADLE case unique
may never again in their entirety be duplicated but in part they amy well be,
and therefore should be enumerated:
a. A Soviet diplomat, and noæber of the HIS, stationed in a non-
Satellite but politically sensitive country, which at the time of AELADIE'
dofection was under considerable Soviet pressure.
b. The fact that the actual crownteres concerning his ant of
defection were such that an immediate decision by then on the scene had
to be made to take advantage of the opportunity.
c. The fact that little alternative could be given, under the facts
as described in (a) above, except to believe the defector's statements
and coquiesce in his demands, i.e., he possessed information of a significant
and perishable nature and would disclose it completely only upon arrival in
the United States.
d. The fact that once the commitments in (c) above were made every
reasonable effort had to be made to accommodate the defector's demand.
٠
In order to accomplish all this an untried method of evacuation, 1.e.,
black ovaouation via commercial aircraft had to be accomplished in order to
successfully proceed with the undertaking.
4. A retrospective analysis as to how this case commenced, and the unique
factors connected with it as enumeratai above, lead me to suggest for Headquarters
study what I refer to as "findings" and "areas of study," that I have labeled as
"rindings in effect represent facts which, if not present, quite probably would
have deprived us in Germany of participating successfully in the movement of the
ARIADIS family. The "areas of study," on the other hand, represent either answer-
able questions or matters in areas wheroin operational discussions may well take
place to noo if some type of school-book solution can be devised.
5. I will elaborate bolow, where appropriate, on some of these "findings" but
will first record thems
COPY ROUTING
n
12 autr
Anly.
19

14-00000
CASCA
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
38 ChBT
SYBAT
Бл-10, Al January 192
8. Tra isdom fintaining in the European area at least one field
installation having assigned to it personnel representing the sany competencies
necessary in the intelligence was taking as been recufirmed.
२. The «iscon of ottaining appropriate security clearances, and having
Stations brief and wase sitting of at least an Ais contact, the resident senior
United States citizen porspanel of United States flag air carriers operating
itain any Station's area.
c. The fallacy of depending on marginal or obsolescent equipment to
accomplish sensitive tasks of nign priority. we here refer to 17-year C-24 17
craft,
d. A realization that a ratio exists between the number of people unde
avere of a given undertaking in rolation to the obstacles encountered in success-
fully accomp.laning tat undertaking.
6. A few words of elaboration are in order on the four prancasing points.
Because the initial endeavor at clack evacuation by Klinik aircraft aborted, wo vere
given an opportunity to see with great clarity the application of these points. If
the attempt to evacuate by Al-assigned aircraft had been successful, then
knowledge of the defection could nave been held to approximately als staff and
assigned military personnel. Because that endeavor was unsuccessful, at least nine
additimal staff and a:litary personnel.. bocamo-generally or specifically aware of the
atter, plus the Consul General and one of his senior officers. Additionally one
private United States citizen, the senior Pan American official in Frankfurt, became
very much. asare of this sensitive case. This increase in the number of individuale
came about because of an immediate noed late in the evening of Saturday, 16 December,
to vee two to scatters to assist in the safenousing function, a total of six
NATOPAZ staffers (documentation, graphics, photographie) to prepare and issue
frawulent and alles passpurts, and an assigned enlisted man to act as a safehouse
guard. The Consulate Jeneral and to affix visas to the fraudulent passports. The
most erucial individual involved, however, was the Pan American official wro to a
certain degree put his position in Jeopardy by being as cooperative on the actter na.
he was without previously having clearod and briefed this official, (His counter-
part in Tha is also so cleared and briefed) the sole undertaking would have been
precluded. It would have been impossible to accomplish departure without documenta-
tion on a commercial aircraft without the connivance of the commercial airline
involved. Indeed with auan cunnivance it was difficult and risky onough. Finally,
the point canoerning cbsolescent equipment speaks for itself. licadquarters is fully
aware of the feelings of this Station concerning the inadequacy for our purposes
of assigned aircraft. Suffice it to say that when defectors apparently of signifi-
cant value refuse te ride such aircraft atter merita thorough ום
7. The atter of "areas of stwiy" appears to us to encompass at least the
fellering
a. Average time differences in transmitting high precedence electrical
gommieations betreen and and representative groupies of station. The
German Station is extremely fortunate in naving Kw-20 circuite with 100
quarters. It affords us a facility for instantaneous commealcation. se oan
make certain rough estimates as to how long it might take appropriate Head-
quarters officiala to answer our queries and we can then approxlants the
arrival time of answers to high precedence traffic. Other Statiune, however,
do not have KW-26 equipment, all do not have the same type of cryptological
equipment, and there is a different pattern as to the type of circuitry, 1.0..
direat leased lines, tux, straight somercial servics, etc. Va believe there
le merit in the appropriate Headquarters unit chloavoring to group geograph-
Joally Statione and then based on the type of cxminluations and cryptologioni
equipment and the channel of transmission to come up with predictions auto
the average length of time the transmission of a priority or operational
lamediato cable would take between and among the various representative
groupings. In the case under study, watch represented a rather fast-breaking
eltuation, it was not possible for is to calimate the fencin of time it took
to transmit an operatiual inmediate cable hetesen Stodanora and Frankfurt.
Σε πολλά λανe been of value to ve to have had come as this siter.
b. Coordination between 0.8. Air Attauhon and Cus. he believe it would
be worthwhile to request each Chief of Station in a location whore the Air
FORM
USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
REPLACES FORMS
SECRET
PAGE NO.

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
MYBAT
MAICHS-B100
BOOT-14004, 31 January 1962
Force or liavy has an assigned attache plans to establish procedures whereby the
Air or Naval Attache will advise COS of any absence of the attache plane, the
point of designation of the aircraft, and the duration of the absence. There
have been previous defections where attache planes were used the initial
vehicle of black evacuation. In the evacuation plan of Stockholm for ABLADLE
they informed us by cable that they proposed to won the attache plane. We ar
of the opinion that when the statement was ande Stockhorn made the assumption
the plane was immediately available. As was later discovered by us the
particular plane in question was at biesbaden and not stimola. This, however,
was some six hours after Steinstated its intent to use that aircraft.
hile in this particular case matters eventually worked out successfully the
story might be otherwise in a different set of facts.
e. Priority furishing of traces. When a Station is alerted to a request
to render operational support to the novecent of a defector and simultaneously
answers a request in the negative if it can furnish traces, the following
procedure is worthy of study. If Headquarters pussesses, and time permits, we
believe it worthwhile to forward an immediate sumary to the Station rendering
support if the background of the devoter is such that it would be a matter of
local interest. This would have been the case in ARLADLE. As suboequent head-
quarters dobriefing developed (and we assumed it would have sen disclosed in
Headquarters traces) ABIADLE had previously boen stationed in Berlin. Had such
facts been known here, and nad time allowed, certain debriefing on the Berlin
period designed to elicit any matter of inmediate concern could have been under-
taken.
103
JOEL D. BENTHAN
Attachment
Ramo dated 18 Dec 1961
Identities uno/top
Distribution
2-B v/atta
A-SR w/atts
1-ME w/asto
FORM
USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
BEPLACES FORMS
PAUE
1940 530
ECRET
4/60
51-20, 21-28A AND $1.29
CONTINUED

14-00000
2
1
TO EGOT-14004, 31 Jan 1962

18 December 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Record

SUBJECT: Handling at German Station 16 and 17 December of
Soviet Defector from Russian Embassy at Helsinki

1. This memorandum is designed to record, soon after the event,
all facts pertaining to the handling within the German Station of the
evacuation of a Soviet Vice Counsel (and member of the RIS) from the
Russian Embassy at Helsinki. At the time of this writing there is
still lacking certain information to complete the entire story. How-....
ever, it is felt worthwhile to record all events while the memory in
still fresh. In the following paragraphs the defector is referred to
as "subject" and pseudonyms and identities are used in all other cases.

2. At approximately 0730 hours Saturday, 16 December, Arnold J.
LYACK (Chief, CABEZONE) contacted me at my home and asked me to proceed
immediately to the residence of Joel D. RENTHAM (Chief of Station).
Upon arrival at BENTHAN's residence, BENTHAM and LYACK briefed me on
143 the Stockholm cable which announced Stockhe's intent to endeavor to
fly subject and family "black" from Stockholm to Frankfurt aboard the
Air Attache aircraft. Cable also requested Frankfurt to have an air-
craft available to receive immediately subject and family and take off
forthwith to the United States. LYACK also mentioned an IN cable from
DIR which requested Stockholm to move family soonest to CABEZONE in
Frankfurt for establishment of bona fides.
02

3. We then adjourned to the office and awaited more word from
either Stockholm, which would advise on the arrival time of the family
at Frankfurt, or from Headquarters concurring in Stockhdim's request
for immediate departure of ine family for the United States upon
arrival at Frankfurt. EAOB was immediately alerted and they made
errangesients to have a C-54 with augmented crew prepared to depart for
the United States by 1200 hours. A compartment for the subject's
family was put in the C-54 and the regularly assigned tail number was
removed and a false number put on the aircraft. Conrad V. LAPOLLA
(Acting Chief: COS/KUSODA) was contacted and asked to come to the office
Immediately. Discussions were then held with LYACK and Carl T.. UPDILL
as to the availability of a KUDOVE case officer with Hussian language
capability to act as escort.

RYBAT
SECRET

14-00000
SAT
2
14-3
4. Having heard nothing from either Stockholm or Headquarters
by 0945 hours OPIM traffic was sent, in both directions telling them
Gersary was prepared to receive and effect immediate black evacuation
of the family to the United States. In the meantime, it had been
determined that IDENTITY A would be used as the security escort and
Russel K. MUCHANK (AD/PI Staff) would be on standby to serve as a
KUDOVE escort. This was a contingency arrangement because we lacked
knowledge whether or not a KUDOVE officer from either Helsinki or
143 Stockhole was prepared to travel with subject all the ways to washing-
ton.

5. Around 1100 hours I asked Edward. P. TOCHENSKY (Chief; RAOB)
to establish contact with the Wiesbaden Air Engeztower and lay on
arrangements to monitor the flight of the Stockholm Air Attache plane.
This was done because we have had previous instances of "black"
arrivals at Wiesbaden where the aircraft actually arrived before the
ETA cable from the Station dispatching the body At about 1115 hours
TOCHENSKY informed me by telephone that the Stockholm Air Attache
aircraft, a C-45, was and had been at the Wiesbaden Air Base since.
12 December. At about 1130 we cabled this information to Stockholm 14-3
and DIR and also offered to dispatch an aircraft to Copenhagen to make
the pickup if Stockholm could move the body there. Because of
technical difficulties involving air clearances and lengths of runways,
we could not imsemately get into any field north of Copenhagen.
14-3

6. At approximately 1145 hours a cable was received from Head-
cuarters concurring in the immediate evacuation from Wiesbaden by EAOB
aircraft of subject's family upon arrival. If such could not be
arranged we were then requested to hold subject and family at (CABEZONE.

7. Having heard nothing from Stockholm by approximately 1600
02
hours: we again sent them OPIM traffic asking that they inform us
inmediately of their intentions. I had previously left the office
about 1430 hours in order to get some lumen and take one of one or
tae parsonal items. I had called Nelson R. POLIAKOFF (Deputy for
Administration Staff) in to cover for me and had briefed him on the
then current situation. When I returned at 1600 hours MUCHANE had
cons into the office prepared for the trip. We then sent the above-
mentioned cable and suggested that MUCHANK return to his quarters and
await further developments. I phoned TOCHINSKY and suggested that he
and his communicator return to their quarters. LAPOLLA, in the mean-
time, had gone to Rhein/Main Airport to meet an incoming staffer carry-
ing classified material and get him through Customs. lie then returned
to his home. I left word with the Signal Center Watch Officer that
any incoming traffic on subject's trip should be telephoned tamediately
to LAPOLJA who would come in, review the traffic and contact me. The

SEGRET

14-00000
3
Watch Officer was also asked to immediately phon: the Wiesbaden Com-
municator who in turn would contact TOCHENSKY and both of them would
go to their office.
:

8. At approximately 1900 hours LAFOLLA contacted me at home from
the Signal Center and informed me that an ETA and other information was
in from Stockholm I told him to stand by and I would immediately come
in. Based on Stockholm's cabled statement that Martin K. ROODINE (Chief 27, 14-1
of Station, Helsinki) was escorting subject to the United States, T
told LAPOLLA not to alert MUCHANE. I arrived at the office at 1930
hours and inmediately dispatched the Guard Sergeant to buy certain
types of foods and magazines that Stockholm asked to be put aboard the
United States-bound aircraft. We contacted TOCHENSKY and ascertained
that EAOB was in a state of immediate readiness. David R. MULFALL
(COS/KUSODA office) then arrived with IDENTITY A. IDENTITY A was given
& general briefing on the mission and his responsibility following
which he and LAPOLLA took off immediately for Wiesbaden. They took
with them the purchases of the Guard Sergeant.

9. I then proceeded to the home of Ronald M. CORBANE (COS Lawyer)
where we were guests for dinner. At approximately 2200 hours I received
a call from LAPOLLA that subject and family had arrived, the turnover
was made, and that the EAOB aircraft was airborne at approximately 2150
hours. I telephoned this information to HENTHAN.

10. At approximately 2245 hours I received a call from the Signal
Center Watch Officer who relayed to me the following message from the
Wiesbaden Communicator. That message stated the EAOB aircraft was
immediately returning to wiesbaden because of a sick passenger. Immedi-
ately thereafter I received a call from LAPOLLA who was at the quarters
of Arthur G. DREIBERIS (EAOB) in wiesbaden. LOFOLIA stated that he
had gotten hold of the Air Base Flight Surgeon and was proceeding to
the Air Base. He how at that time ac other details. I told him Chester
E. FAGERLUND (Cos Musical Officer) and myself would leave immediately
for Wiesbaden Air Base.

11. PAGERLUND was in attendance at the same dinner party and we
departed immediately for the Air Base. Upon arrival at approximately
2300 hours the EAOB aircraft had already landed and maximum scourity
provisions were observed in the area. Air Police had the "Hargar 34
Area" blocked off two blocks in either direction.

12. TOCHENSKY met me outside the building and informed me that
immediately after take-off subject's six-year-old daughter lind become
extremely airsick and suffered respiratory difficulties, she was
administered oxygen. The mother became hysterical and the father
demanded that the aircraft immediately be returned to its point of

14-00000
::
4
departure. He further stated he would not agree to further travel
to the United Statesixcept by commercial jet. We then entered the
Operations Office of the 7405th Flight Squadron where I was introduced
to ROODINE, who recited basically the same story as told by TOCHENSKY.
We also ascertained that the Flight Surgeon had looked at the daughter
and had found nothing organically wrong. We then asked ROODINE to.
bring FAGERLUND into the room where subject's family was staying and
introduce him as an "Azerican Intelligence Service Medical Officer"
and have FAGERLUND examine the child. FAGERLUND's results were the
same as the Plight Surgeon and no medication was given the child. A
discussion of some fifteen minutes then took place as to how best to
proceed with onward transportation arrangements. HOODINE took me aside
and strenuously impressed me with the fact that subject was of the
opinion that certain of his information on the matter of Soviet/Finnish
relations was of great perishability and that subject deeply felt his
necessity to arrive in Washington and state this information within
the next 48 hours. ROODINE also stated he concurred in subleot's feel-
ings. All KUBARK representatives then on the scene again got together
and the undersigned made the decision to abort the mission, arrange
immediate safe-housing overnight for subject and his family, and
attempt comercial transportation on Sunday.

13. Earlier in the day LYACK informed me that he had cleared out
their Eschborn safe-house in case we should need it. I immediately
tried to contact LYACK by phone but there was no answer.
Henry R. GANLINGAY (Deputy for Administration Staff) and asked him to
I then phoned
do for me the following thingst

a. Contest Stephen R. LACKLEN (CABEZONE) and tell him we had
an ismediato need to house a family of three, plus two
KUBARK officers at Eschborn. To further tell LACKLEN to
be standing by at Opel Circle opposite the Minneapolis
Honeywell Building at 0100 hours end be prepared to escort
another vehicle to Eschborn.

b. Phone ESATHAN and toil him we would drop by his house
later that evening to brief him on any developments.
.. Phone YACK and tell him we were using Eschborn.

14. All concerned departed Wiesbaden Air Base at approximately
0020 hours on 17 December and arrived at the meeting point at Opel
Circle at exactly 100 hours. Subfoot's family plus MULFALL, who had
also gone immediately to Wiesbaden, followed LACKLEN's car to Bechborn.
PAOKRLAND, LAPOLLA, ROOD INs, and myself went immediately to BENTHAN'
house.
190

14-00000
12
5
15. BENTHAM was then fully briefed on developments and ROODINE
gave certain operational information of a sensitive nature from subject
το ΒΕΝΤΙΑΝ. After necessary analysis and discussion the following
decisions were reached:

a. We would endeavor to remove the family out of Frankfurt
by commercial aircraft that day, 1.6., Sunday, 17 December.

b. In the absence of the ability to accomplish this, we would
endeavor to remove them on an Air Force Hodical Evacuation
Flight on Monday, 18 December.

c. Seeph Q. KLDMACK (Chief, COS/KURIOT) was contacted by
phone from HENTHAN's residence and said he believed that
his people could affix in the subject's passports a
Pederal Republic entry stamp. This was considered neces-
sary in order to prevent embarrassing questions by German
Immigration Authorities on Sunday when the family would
depart by commercial air. The family had entered the
Federal Republic "black" and accordingly there was no
entry permit in their Soviet Diplomatic passports.

d. We would return LAPOLJA and HOODING to the safe-house and
I would also send out one enlisted guard with sidearm.

16. A cable to Headquarters was drafted on the basis of all this
information and everyone departed the HENTHAM residence for their
respective missions. I proseeded to the Signal Conter and released the
drafted cable.

17. I arrived back at my quarters about 0330 hours. At about 0410
hours I received a call from KLEMACK, wanting to get in touch with
LAPOLLA on matters pertaining to the documentation work he was tryin,,
to accomplish. I gave him the telephone number of the Eschborn safe-
house. It turned out that the cold weather had affected telephone coa
mnications to Rechborn and the phone was dead. KIHACK ülen went
to Kechborn and discussed his problem wit LAPULLA and KOODINE. I am
informed, but as yet do not know the technical reason why, that KURIOT
Guld not put in the subject's passport the required German entry stamp.
It was decided at the meeting at the Ksohborn safe-house that KURIOT
would try to make and have ready by the next morning Austrian passports
for subject and his family.
11

18. At about 0600 hours I received a call from the Signal Center
Watch Officer informing me that Headquarters "approved your plan." I
ármediately tried to contact the Eschborn safe-house by phone but to no
avail. Around 0630 I acntactol hinn at the kimior installation and
was then informed by him of his earlier visit to Eschborn around 0400.
He told me during his phone conversation that LAPOLLA was going to get
up about 0700 hours. I surmised that LAPOLLA would proceed immediately
to the office and then did so myself.

14-00000
6
19. LAPOLIA arrived at the office sometime shortly after 3800. e
then discussed what our possibilities were, based on the situation as
we then saw it. We had no guarantee that the Austrian passports would
be finished by AURIST in time to be used by an early afternoon United.
States flag commercial jet. ke discussed again, as we had the previous
evening, contacting Mr. William Naylor, the Pan American Senior Officer
in Germany and a cleared and witting contact, as to whether or not he
could arrange to board passengers without going through German Imigra-
tion, 1.0., Passport Control. The question of the availability of seats
was also involved. LAPOLLA suggested that we phone Naylor in his
residence in Bed Homburg and explain to him we had a matter of serious
urgency and ask him to come immediately to the I.0. Farben Building and
discuss the matter with us. The phone call was made and Naylor agreed
to do this. LAPOLLA then contacted the MATS Office at Whein/Main to
ascertain if MATS had any commercial jets chartered for departure that
day. Ho discovered that they had no commercial jet chartered flights
that day but at midnight on Sunday they were dispatching a C-135 con-
figured to carry 66 passengers. He was further informed that 36 of
these seats had been given to the Air Force and 3) to the Army to be
used only by single military personnel departing to the States on
Christmas leave. No families could be sent on the flight. Inasmuch as
a C-135 is the military cargo version of a Boeing 707, LAPOLLA and myself
discwsed seriously the advisability of endeavoring to get military
authority to fly this family out. We decided against such course of
cotion for several reasons. We anticipated that there would be too
much conversation among the single military personnel aboard the flight
when they observed five civilians, three of whom were obviously &
family, flying on the same plane. The fact that the six-year-old
daughter spoke no English also contributed to the adverse situation we
anticipated. Secondly, subject and family had already been aboard one
cargo type aircraft and were reported tj ROODINE to have made a series
of uncomplimentary remarks of the type transportation that they were
being afforded.

20. Naylor arrived at the office at about 1000 hours and was made
generally aware of our problem. He was informed that the principal
traveler involved was a defecting Russian diplomat, plus wife and child,
and that we were under obligation to expeditiously and securely return
them to the United States by Jet aircraft. He was further informed
that we lacked the proper doowaentation to board them on the commercial
airoraft through normal clearance procedures and we had no guarantee
that we would have the documentation by flight departure time of
PAA No. 75 at 1315 hours. We then asked him what he considered to be
the possibilities of working out a procedure to board the party "black"
and to prevent any divulgence of their existence to the German Immigra-
tion Authorities. After considerable discussion it appeared that there
RYBAT

14-00000
7
existed a very good possibility to get the passengers aboard the air
craft and successfully circumvent German passport controls. Naylor
contasted his own assistant and the PAA Operations Officer assigned to
Rhein/Main, both of whom are United States citizens, and asked that
they proceed to the airport and stand by to assist him in the handling
of some very important personages who were departing on PAA No. 73.
He then ascertained that only three first class seats were available
on this flight. He told his assistant to seat two passengers in the
aircraft lounge and he would accept full responsibility for it. This
is somewhat touchy in the airlines business as lounge seats have no
safety belte. He also know additional first class seats were available
out of London.

21. In the meantime, KLEMACK and one of his men working on the
documentation had returned to Eschborn to take pictures of subject and
his family that would be necessary for the Austrian passports. The
best reading we could get from the KURIOT people working on the doou-.
ments was that they would not be ready on time. Inasmuch as decisions
had been made, we decided to set the wheels in motica and started the
family to the airport. LAPOLLA accordingly took off for Eschborn and
a plan was agreed upon where he would arrive with the family in front
of the Rhein/Main Departure building at 1230 hours. Naylor would be
standing by the entrance and take the family via a circuitous airport
building route to the PAA Operations Office which is located on the
second floor of the building beyond Passport Control. Naylor departed
at about the same time as LAPOLLA and went directly to the airport.

22. Earlier in the morning I had asked BOTHAN if he could effect
arrangements at the Consulate to have a Visa Officer standing by to put
United States visitors' visas for subject's family in the Austrian pass-
ports. BHAM accomplished this and, at Naylor's suggestion, we asked
if the Consulate Officer could go to the PAA Operations Office at Rhein/
Mair, and end by there to accomplish his visa work. By 60 Going we
could save approximately 30 minutes time. I contacted Mr. Rollie White
of the Consulate office and he agreed to meet us at the airport at
1245 hours.
:

23. I next phoned BENTHAM and made him aware of our situation. It
did not look as if we would have any meble documentation to pass the
family and would have to take tize chance of wirewrventing the Passport
Control. Our principal concern was that a German Immigration Officer
would be standing by the aircraft doparture area and would ask to see
subject's passport. We could not get subject's family aboard the
regular bus that goes from the departure building to the aircraft
because there was no way we would get them to the bus loading area
without going through Passport Control, THAM asked how we evaluated
an ability to withdraw gracefully at plane side if challenged by Cerman
PYBAT

14-00000
8
authorities. I told him the chances were better than even and that we
would appeal to the fact that this was a VIP party being handled out of
the regular airport procedures and that the passports had been left in
the PAA office. he would then put the party back in the vehicle "that"
took them out and just keep going. BENTHAM authorised us to proceed
with the "black" evacuation.

24. I then made one last call to KURIOT and told them if they could
not complete their work and get the passports to the airport by 1315
hours to forget it. With that MULFALL and myself left for thein/Main.

25. We arrived at Rhein/Main exactly at 1230 hours as subject's
party was drawing up. The group was then taken by a circuitous route
to the PAA Operations office. It was cscertained that PAA No. 73 would
arrive at 1245 hours, approximately thirty minutes late.

26. During our wait at the PAA Operations Office, ROODINE got me
aside three or four times and kept me continuously aware of subject's
