104-10004-10213 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

YF2-27221
9 July 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT : Discussion with Warren Commission Staff Member
REFERENCE: Letter from J. Lee Rankin, General Counsel of the
President's Commission, to Mr. Richard Helms
dated 3 July 1964

>O SRICE DISCUSSION with SLAUSEN & Tily on .girations.
Svitt felicy towards design woats HALETICONS ANd
CUINT Visa Puccedures,
1. With the approval of C/SR and the DDP, I met with Mr. W.
David Slawson of the staff of the President's Commission on the
Assassination of President Kennedy at 1400 hours on this date in
the Commission's offices at 200 Maryland Avenue, N.E., Washington,
D.C. The purpose of this meeting was to discuss apparent inconsistencies
in material provided the Commission by CIA and by the Department of
State which were called to our attention in a letter from the General
Counsel of the Commission to Mr. Helms, dated 3 July 1964.

2. By way of introduction, Mr. Slawson said that in the portion of the
Commission's report that he was writing, he would have to deal with the
question of whether or not the OSWALDs' departure from the USSR - and
the circumstances (i.e. timing) of that departare were unusual or
suspicious in any way. He expressed his belief that they probably were
not and cited Soviet relaxation in such matters in the post-Stalin era.
However, he wanted to be sure in his own mind that our information was
not in conflict with that which the Commission had received from State
since all of that information would remain in the records of the
Commission.

3. After stating my belief that there was no real disagreement or
inconsistency between the information from CLA and that from State, I
expressed the view that the matter resolved itself into three questions:

Document Number 767-864
for FOIA Review on
/a. Do the Soviet
JUN 1976

CS COPY

SECRET

a. Do the Soviet authorities normally permit Soviet
citizens married to foreign nationals to emigrate from the
Soviet Union to the homelands of their spouses?

b. Do they normally permit such Soviet citizens to
accompany (i.e. depart simultaneously with) their spouses
from the Soviet Union?

c. How long does it take such Soviet citizens to get
Soviet exit visas for such a purpose (time lapse from application
to granting of visas)?

4. Concerning the first two questions (3a and 3b above) I pointed out.
that we had addressed ourselves mainly to the question of Sovie: citizens
being allowed to accompany their spouses abroad while State dealt only
with the larger question of Soviets married to foreigners being allowed
to emigrate without reference to whether or not they left simultaneously
with or at another time from their spouses. Mr. Slawson commented
that this explanation was most helpful and he reread what both we and
State had said in that light.

5. By way of further explanation, I said that the statements in
paragraph 6 of our memorandum of 6 April 1964 concerning Soviets being
permitted to accompany their foreign spouses abroad were based on a
review of 26 cases, of which 10 involved Americans. In only four of
these cases did a Soviet wife leave the USSR in the company of her foreign
husband; in 14 of the cases the foreign spouse departed alone; and in the
remaining seven cases insufficient details are known to permit us to
categorize them. I added that although State's information began by
citing the issuance of 724 quota and non-quota immigrant visas by the
American Embassy in Moscow during the period FY 1954 to December
1963, it did not indicate how many of these visas were for Soviet citizens
who had married U.S. nationals. Actually State provided detailed
information for only sixteen cases and did not indicate in many of these
whether or not the Soviet was permitted to accompany the foreign spouse.
16. In response to

-2-

6. In response to a question from Mr. Slawson I stated that most
of the 26 cases upon which we based our statements involved foreign
students, exchange teachers and other relatively transient persons,
and while a number of cases have certain points in common, they bear
little similarity to the OSWALD case in that none involved a defector who
married prior to repatriating. I noted that paragraph 6 of our 6 April
1964 memorandum to the Commission had pointed this out. Mr. Slawson
indicated that he was now satisfied on this matter.

7. Concerning the length of time taken by Soviet authorities to
process exit visas for Soviet citizens married to foreign nationals
(question 3c above), I stated that, in my opinion, the information
provided by State (in the third enclosure to Mr. Meeker's letter)
substantially corresponded to the views expressed in paragraphs 6 and 7
of our memorandum to the Commission dated 6 April 1964. Mr. Slawson
asked if it would be possible to elaborate paragraph 7 of our memorandum
of 6 April by providing a statistical breakdown of the cases on which our
statements were based. I indicated that this could be done.

8. At this point Mr. Slawson stated that as a result of our discussion
he felt that the question of possible inconsistencies bad been resolved.
However, he asked that we send a brief written reply to the Commission's
letter of 3 July 1964 embodying the substance of what I had said concerning
the basis for statements included in our 6 April 1964 memorandum. (This
would include the gist of the draft reply to the Commission which I showed
to C/SR on 8 July plus an elaboration of our statements concerning Soviet
visa applications.]

9. Mr. Slawson indicated that he would be sending parts of his report
dealing with the Soviet intelligence services to CIA for checking as to
their accuracy. He did not say when this would occur.

10. After concluding the meeting with Mr. Slawson, I read Volume 52
of the transcript of testimony before the Commission. This included the
reinterview of Marina OSWALD.

-3-

Lee H. Wigren
C/SR/CI/Research

@Do. sors normally permit Sov. cityens married to for
natla to engrate pom Sll to homeland of sprise ?
• State says you - cites 724 visa applicationم
(perbably minority Spouse's; mij
belatives ite ast mijint)
- We cite absence of law; do not say.

2 arimally
② Do Sros permit sou. cits menit to fon marks to
accompany (ie depont simultanernely co.) spouses
from Sele to homelandes of spouses
- State does not say
se cite evidence that they do not
We ليه

③ How long does it take Soveits to gel. Sevivians
at to homelan Ss of fou Spouses?
to junge at
-Our #7 and State's inse
فه
Cases inhuid. it ikurus ajrec

Notes, Hedin
Co
CS-COPY

dil Ite XAA2-27221

Le 7
with) friin sprστασις
Based on in de la 26 Cail
fre till out c/ SU.
(10 US)

-Safe left line oftenband - 4
 -
-
-
-
- 7- !

② Irifi in fu 47
1-2 fine taken by for allite
bisa apple of Sor Spencer of fin
substant illy agrees is lite o infe
نر
4. on Juice taken by Sri-st. poreias veda
aggelies of Sou woofcitis (1)

Gust of State is w
life cancion y bar, tibi of tense to her bij de citthoritie
1.
bun cits in Sel
life in the poor
/
740
li inquest for norme of all 1152
ت
:/ cits vitus ricerit'd in Cast
2: 10 quo cesta Collis len, the of
fine betinien intrs of aggler. l. He apport
by God auth
2 יני

Aun cat
0063
>

② Date of appplectenfor os doit reser
Ion dedures, in 14
12

"
[10dayo-194]
Promplit all itthees
-10 line to 14 yeю
- Cant till bord
