1104-10072-10227 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

AIPO
Chief, WH/Cuba
COS, JMWAVE
NROM
Chief, DOD
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET/RYBAT

XX
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESH
CAR JUDGE INDEXING
BECT
Chief of Base, New York
TYPIC/AMCLOCK/1
MICROFILM
Transmittal of Contact Resorts for First Two Meetings with
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
AMCLOCK/1
ACTION REQUIRED: FYI

REFERENCE: DO BASE/NEW YORK 3346, et seq.

1. Transmitted herewith are one copy for each addressee
of the contact reports prepared by Peter J. DI GERVENO con-
cerning his first two meetings with AMCLOCK/'1. Report #1,
New York Memorandum (NYM)-2233, deals with a meeting held
26 September 1967; Report #2, NYM-2234, deals with a meeting
held 27 September.
2. IDENTITY Sheets for each of the two reports follow
under separate cover enclosure to this dispatch.
3. Contact reports of later meetings will follow by
dispatch.

Howard G. FIGALAN

ATTACHMENTS:
1-Contact Reports as stated para i, h/w
2-IDENTITY Sheets as stated para 2, USC

DISTRIBUTION:
2/C/WH/Cuba, w/atts. %31 & 2 as stated
2-COS, JMWAVE, w/atts. %231 & 2 as stated
1-DOD, w/o att

CROOS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UNDA-3263
CS COPY
DATE
13 October 1967

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET/RYBAT
HOS FILE NUMBER
201-009239

9318

APERTURE CARD REPRODUCTIONS
زا
14-00000
4
SECRE

CONTACT REPORT NO. 1
8 October 1967

TO: AMCLOCK/1 File
NYM-2233

FROM: Peter DI GERVENO/JMWAVE
Distribution:
H
1-Unit A Chrono DUMMY
1-Unit B Chrono DUMMY
SUBJECT: Meeting with AMCLOCK/1,
4-AMCLOCK/1 File
26 September 1967
(Original via ELMARD)
REFERENCES: DO BASE/NEW YORK 3346
Introduction
and 3352
445-5547
DESENSITIZED
1. AMCLOCK/l arrived in New York on 19 September 1967. He
had been given instructions to call a JMWAVE operational number
(Iden A) next time he was out in a friendly country in order to receive
contact instructions. When he failed to call soon after his arrival
it was decided to try to establish visual contact with him at HTBASTE, HOTEL
same as was done successfully in 1966 to move him to call for contact MC
7
instructions. For that purpose DI GERVENO was taken to HTBASTE on
21 September carrying a match folder from (Iden Blwith his alias, Iden C
and room number. The plan was to make sure AMCLOCK/1 recognized
DI GERVENO, who also met him in 1966, and to pass the match folder
to AMOOCK/1 only if this could be done securely- DI GERVENO was
able to make definite visual contact on four different occasions:
✓ once at Iden D twice at (Iden E` and a fourth time on the corridor
BERAL
Apionsbetween Iden Dhand (Iden F AMCLOCK/1 quickly recognized DI GERVENO
4685
and tried to keep himself) available for a possible contact.
David
CoRim
LOUNGE,
this was not possible and the contacts on 21 September were limited SECRETARIAT Buildi
OF THE UNITED NATIO
Bowever AELEGATES
to visual recognition only
UNITED
PATINAS
D
2.
It was then Houstud
EMBASS
During this time the operational number of the Beekman site
((Iden G) was also manned in case AMCLOCK/1 had retained this number
and attempted to call DI GERVENO there instead of JMWAVE, but he
failed to call either place for contact instructions.
decided to attempt to contact the agent again on 26 September at
HTBASTE. While attempts were being made to locate AMCLOCK/1
the 12 STRE
310 EAST
the case officer surveilled the building where AMCLOCK/1 is staying (Iden H)
and saw him go in by himself at 1310 hours to leave his briefcase.
At 1330 hours, AMCLOCK/1 left the building alone to go for lunch and
DI GERVENO followed him. AMCLOCK/1 recognized the case officer and
after exchanging safety signals DI GERVENO passed the match folder
to the agent while both were waiting on a crowded street corner for
the red light to change, at which time AMCLOCK/1 told DI GERVENO
that he had no way to contact him and would see him after lunch.
SECRET
DESENSITIZED
SAKU REPRODUCTIONS
14-00000

SECRET
-2-
DESENSITIZED
< Mission
OME
BACIONS
Operational Chrondogy

3. On 26 September AMCLOCK/1 met DI GERVENO from 1500 to 1830
at (Iden B, AMCLOCK/1 appeared to be in good health and rested and in
high spirits. He was very glad to see LI GERVENO again and to be able
to discuss things openly. He criticized bitterly the living conditions
in PBRUMEN but does not seem to be affected by it or by the fact that
he had to live under a regime he obviously hates. In fact, he seemed
quite sure of himself and plans to return to PBRUMEN at the end of the
HTBASTE session. He is scheduled to remain in New York until December
1967 but may return to PBRUMEN before then for a short visit to look
after his ailing mother and his wife, who had a baby girl two weeks
prior to his departure. This may have influenced AMCLOCK/1 not to
think about a possible defection at this time, which came as a surprise
to the case officer who expected the agent to have second thoughts
about return to PBRUMEN where he is not happy.

4. AMCLOCK/1 explained that he could not make contact as instructed
He
because he had destroyed the phone number and both accommodation
addresses we had given him for him to report from inside PBRUMEN.
destroyed them in the toilet at the airport upon his arrival in PBRUMEN
in late December 1966 after observing a number of uniformed individuals
at the airport which he considered to be suspicious, although they had
nothing to do with AMCLOCK/1. This may have been a convenient excuse for
his failure to make contact as instructed but DI GERVENO did not press
the issue. Instead he was given the operational numbers of the Beekman
site and of the Base in New York (Iden I) and told he could always call
there and he could not locate DI GERVENO at den He was also live
the JMWAVE number for emergency contact. AMCLOCK/1 said he tried to
2948
make contact by calling (Iden J to inquire about MIDDAUGH in true name,
but after much probing he was told that MIDDAUGH was in Washington and
was given a phone number for him to call direct. AMCLOCK/1 was planning
to call Washington at a later day if he had not been contacted.

5. AMCLOCK/1 reported that he has had no security problems and
has not been molested inside of PBRUMEN. He was treated "royally" by
the AMTHUG regime in early 1967 and everybody seemed pleased to see
him back. Apparently his return surprised some individuals who pri-
vately thought he would defect rather than return to PBRUMEN to live.
During this time he enjoyed special privileges and received frequent
invitations to official functions with foreign diplomats. However,
by mid 1967 the special privileges and invitations were gradually
suspended for no apparent reason. (For example, he was no longer
allowed to take his private car to a government garage for repairs
and he had to arrange for themaintenance of his house, which was given
to him and kept up by the government at first). AMCLOCK/1 believes
that this was due to his being under "observation" while going through
a reorientation period after his long stay abroad. There is nothing
to indicate that AMCLOCK/1 is not trusted or accepted by other govern-
ment officials. The fact that he was sent out again is a strong
SECRET
AHENDITAODUCTION
14-00000
JOAQUIN
CAMILO
GARCIA
Anarso
CUBAN
Mission To
THE KNITED UNIT
SECRET
-3-
DESENSITIZED
indication that he enjoys a favorable position in the AMTHUG regime.
He hopes that in 1968 he will be assigned to another permanent post
abroad.

6. In reference to his w.fe AMCLOCK/1 stated that he is now
convinced that she is totally against the AMTHUG regime. After
their marriage in late 1966 he was not sure of her true political
ideology but during the past year he has been able to confirm her
disagreement on a number of occasions. He feels confident that she
would follow him in any movement against the regime, such as defection,
but has not told her about his work for WOFACT.
GEWALL DIAZ DIAZ
ALBERTO BIER HIDALCU-GATL
Root
ROAR'I GUE
7. (Regarding the trip to New York, AMCLOCK/1/reported that with
them came (Iden K a known intelligence type and four other individuals
not known to him but believed to be intelligence/types. Later AMCLOCK/1
identifid these individuals as Idens L, M, Nand
In answer to
specific questions AMCLOCK/1 said that the crate they brought contained
only a vase for (Iden P. AMCLOCK/1 is not aware if any weapons or special
instructions have been sent to (Iden Pin connection with racial dis-
turbances in WOLADY. The routine instructions given to Iden P) were to
oppose LNHARP actions in HTBASTE whenever possible and to try to bring
all debatable matters to HTBASTE, where they have better support. Cher Miss
"

ITME UNIT
NATIO
8. AMCLOCK/1 was not seen going in or out of the room and the
NATIONS meeting was conducted without interruption under most secure condi-
tions. DI GERVENO established immediate rapport with AMCLOCK/1 and
their relations remained most cordial throughout the meeting. Only
DI GERVENO and AMCLOCK/1 were present.

Finances
9. DI GERVENO was careful not to mention salary payments to
AMCLOCK/1 who is not aware of his salary increase to $1,000 a month
effective 1 January 1966. However, he requested $500 to buy books
and baby items for his daughter. DI GERVENO told him that he would
bring him the money in their next meeting. All payments to AMCLOCK/1
will be T/A'd to JMWAVE together with the agent's signed receipts.

Intelligence Production
10. Although most of the meeting was used to discuss operational
matters, AMCLOCK/1 reported disseminable information on the following
requirements given in DIRECTOR 37960.

a. Present actitude of the PBRUMEN government towards the
United States: expectation of a military attack on
PBRUMEN supported by the United States: formal military
training being given to all PBRUMEN army officials
(DO BASE/NEW YORK 3362)
SECRET
DESENSITIZED
STORE CARD REPRODUCTIONS
14-00000
-4-
AFRE
b.
c.
d.
Main objectives of the Foreign Policy of the AMTHUG
regime (being disseminated).
Replacement of PBRUMEN Ambassador to the USSR and PBRUMEN
views regarding the Soviet Ambassador to PBRUMEN
(DO BASE/NEW YORK 3392).
SECRE TOESENSITIZED
C-ASIAN-LAGEN FHMERICAN VELPLESS SOLIDARITY
CFLNA
AC-AALAPSO
LATIN AMERICA
NRITY LOAN
PBRUMEN views regarding (Idens and (DO BASE/NEW YORK 3390)
(LASC)
Future Plans
11. The next meeting was scheduled for the following day.
27 September, for lunch at the Beekman site.
SECRET
DESENSITIZED
ESARO BEPRODUCTIONS
14-00000
SECRET
DEGENC
Identities to NYM-2233
Iden A
445-5547
Iden B
Commodore Hotel, Room 1263
Iden C
David Cordova
Iden D
General Assembly of the United Nations
Iden E
Delegates Lounge, United Nations
Iden F
Secretariat building of the United Nations
Iden G
688-4683
Iden H
Embassy House, 310 East 47th Street)
Iden I
986-2948
Iden J
U.S. Mission to the United Nations
:
Iden K
Alberto BOZA Hidalgo-Gatop
Iden L
Joaquin Camilo GARCIA Alonso
Iden M Gonzalo DIAZ Diaz
Iden N
Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez
::
Iden O
"Papo", a courier to the Cuban Mission to the
United Nations
Iden P
Cuban Mission to the United Nations
Iden Q
Afro-Asian- Latin American Peoples Solidarity
Organization AALAPSO
Iden R
Latin American Solidarity Organization LASO
18 1967
SECRET
DESENSITIZED
CS COPY
TIONS
14-00000
SECRET
DEFENS
Identities to UNDA 2234
Iden A
United Nations, Committee II
Iden B
Jesus JIMENEZ Escobar (201-749244)
م
یا
Idon- Raul 'ROA *
هم
Iden D
JOS TERNANDEZ Cossio Director of International
Organisms in the Foreign Ministry
$
Iden E
Americo CRUZ, Cuban Ambassador to Canada
1
Iden F
Bank of Foreign Commerce
Iden G
Fernando ALVAREZ Tabio
Iden H
Foreign Relations Committee of the Central
Committee of the Cuban Communist Party
Iden I
Isidro
ROSALES (201-335336).
Iden J
Antonio CARRILLO (201-349956)
!
Iden K
Gabriel MOLINA (201-817838)
SECRET
CESENSITIZED
APERTURE CARD REPRODUCTIONS
14-00000
;
CONTACT REPORT NO. 2
TO: AMCLOCK/1 File
FROM:
SUBJECT:
SECRE OUGAT
DE SENSITIZED
Peter J. DI GERVENO/JMWAVE
Meeting with AMCLOCK/1,
27 September 1967
REFS: DO BASE/NEW YORK 3362 and 3359;
DIRECTOR 37254 and 37960
9 October 1967
NYM-2234
Distribution:
1-Unit A Chrono DUMMY
1-Unit B Chrono DUMMY
4-AMCLOCK/1 File
(Original via ELMARD)
Operational Chronology
1. On 27 September 1967 AMCLOCK/1 met DI GERVENO from 1130 to
1530 for lunch at the Beekman site. The agent was not seen entering
or leaving the site and he stayed out of sight when food was brought
up from the restaurant downstairs. The meeting was conducted under
secure conditions and without interruptions. Only AMCLOCK/1 and
DI GERVENO were present at the meeting.
COMMITEE I
A
RAUL ROA
2.
74944.4)
JESS JIMENEZ ESCCEAK (201-74924-41
AMCLOCK/1 reported that he had been assigned to work in
(Iden Ay with (Iden B same as last year. A few days before his departure
from PBRUMEN, (Iden Citold AMCLOCK/1 to watch out for Iden B who is a
member of the intelligence service and will be reporting on AMCLOCK/1.
The implication was that AMCLOCK/1 was still under observation by the
AMTHUG regime and Iden C'actually told him to bend backwards in every
way possible to prove himself while in New York. AMCLOCK/1 explained
that this meant to live a model life while abroad and to perform extra
work whenever required, without complaining. AMCLOCK/1 believes that
(Iden Bis being trained to take over AMCLOCK/1's position as an expert
in economics for the AMTHUG regime. If this is the case, this may be
the last time AMCLOCK/l is sent to Iden A Still under much probing,
AMCLOCK/1 could not come out with any clear indication that he was
suspected or was falling out of grace with the AMTHUG regime.
the agent has a tendency to emphasize his "delicate" position, the
case officer believes that he is not mistrusted and still enjoys a
favorable position in the government, although probably considered too
bourgeois to be completely integrated with their communist philosophy.
3.
Although
Regarding the recent changes made in PBRUMEN diplomatic
personnel abroad, AMCLOCK/1 was not aware of any security shake up
taking place in the Foreign Ministry. He regarded these changes
as a routine matter in accordance with their policy to bring back
to PBRUMEN for a reorientation tour all those diplomats stationed
abroad for three consecutive years or more.
AMCLOCK/1 actually
SECRET
DESENSITIZED
REPRODUCTIONS
14-00000

SECRET
JOSE
Cessi
2-
DEGENSITIZED
appeared not to be aware of any major purge and not to be concerned
about it. However, if this is true the chances for AMCLOCK/1 to be
reassigned abroad in the near future appear doubtful at this time.

4. When DI GERVENO asked AMCLOCK/1 about his work and how the
recent changes may affect him, the agent then reported the following
information about his position in the Foreign Ministry. After his
return in late December 1966 he was given four months vacation, during
which time he went by the ministry from time to time but had no job
assigned to him. He used most of this time for a honeymoon and to
relocate in his new home furnished by the PBRUMEN government. In the
spring of 1967 (Iden C considered him actively as a substitute for
Commune den Dowhom Iden does not like. However, the job did not materialize
OF INTER- accepted by (Iden E whom Iden Cwas going to send as Ambassador to
because (Iden C's plans to send (Iden Das Ambassador to Canada were not
IN THE FOREIGN Switzerland.
BATIONAL
ORGANISMS
MINISORY
BANK
of
FOREIGN
At that time AMCLOCK/1 was also considered for a position
in Iden which was the position the PBRUMEN President wanted him to
take, but AMCLOCK/1 avoided the position although it implied frequent Ama
travels abroad. The reason AMCLOCK/1 gave for not taking the position
at Iden was that he did not want to break away from his diplomatic
career and felt he would be better protected among his friends in the
Foreign Ministry. Consequently, after his vacation AMCLOCK/1 want
back to work in the Foreign Ministry but without any specific duties.
He is actually doing odd jobs for Iden C, like economic studies.
Connet mid 1967 AMCLOCK/1 and (Iden Gwere proposed by (Iden Cand accepted by
FERNANDE
In
Iden Has members of a four-man committee (the other two members have
not been selected yet) which is to be created in the Foreign Ministry
to make specific area studies and recommendations to
ALVAREZ both AMCLOCK/1 and Iden Ghave been assigned to the HTBASTE 10801on,
TABIC
Sinco
it is concluded that the creation of said "Advisory Committes" 10
contemplated until early 1968. According to AMCLOCK /1 the creation
of this "Advisory Committee" has been discussed at the highest level
only and it may have some influence in the policy making decisions
NJIN Of Iden H which is the main body that dictates present PBPUMEN
✓ foreign policy.
✓ RELATION
ORAL COMMITTEE
CARTY
a
not
grain
The ageit.
It is of intercat to
5. It may be well to record here that we should take with
of salt the selection of AMCLOCK/1 to such a sensitive source of
information as an "Advisory Committee" to (Iden Hwould be.
may be trying to build up his importance to us.
note that in the past year that AMCLOCK/1 has been residing inside of
PBRUMEN he has made no clear effort to obtain and develop new Bources
of information and to bring out with him intelligence of particular
interest to us. For example, he has no information on the specific
requirements we gave him in 1966 prior to his return to PBRUMEN and
when asked to identify his main sources of information he said they
were his contacts in the Foreign Ministry and Idens I, J, and Kwhic
ISIDRO ROSALES336)
SECRET
CARRILLO
ANJONIC (201-344957)
GARLIEL MRID
261-817335)
CR
(
14-00000
SECRET
-3-
DESENS
are old friends of AMCLOCK/1. (Iden Kis also a cousin of AMCLOCK/1's
wife. (AMCLOCK/1 is a difficult individual to debrief on hard
intelligence.)

6. Regarding internal security in the PBRUMEN mission in
New York, AMCLOCK/1 reported that the entire third floor of the
Not
mission is used only by members of the intelligence service.
Besides Iden B
even the Ambassador is allowed in that area.
AMCLOCK/1 correctly identified the known members of the intelligence
service permanently assigned to the PBRUMEN mission.

Finances
7. AMCLOCK/1 was given $500 he requested from his escrow
account and signed a receipt for this amount, which will be T/A'd
to JMWAVE.

8. During the meeting AMCLOCK/1 was debriefed on the following
information which was disseminated as indicated:

a. Changes of PBRUMEN diplomats abroad; expected internal
reorganization in the PBRUMEN Foreign Ministry (DO BASE/
NEW YORK 3373)
b. Advisory Committee on PBRUMEN Foreign Policy (DO BASE/
NEW YORK 3376)
C. Informal message sent to PBRUMEN Prime Minister by
Mexican President (DO BASE/NEW YORK 3375)
d. Appointment of PBRUMEN Ambassador to the Congo
(Brazzaville) (DO BASE/NEW YORK 3374)

Future Plan:
9. Next meeting is tentatively scheduled for 29 September
With the assignment of AMCLOCK/1 to
between 1300 and 1400 hours.
Iden Ashis free time will be more restricted from now on for future
meetings. However, the agent agreed to contact DI GERVENO, as often
as possible.
SECRET
NSITIZED
APERTURE CARD REPRODUCTIONS