14-00000
104-10101-10175
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

PRIORITY BOOK CADIL
CARA MARA WAVE LODS.
MEXI LIMA PACY GUAT
BUEN MONT DOGO QUIT
LAYA RIOD SAOP SAGO
LAPA SANJ SDOM

REYS: A. DIR 23577
B. DIP 83638

88205

1. THERE AUR INDICATIONS THAT BANT FLOITATION HOOT DAS
HAVING BENEFICIAL EFFECT IN THAT HIGH INTEREST CREATED AMONG PEOPLE
IS ENCOURAGING AND/OR CAUSING SOME GOVERNMENTS ADOPT STRON SR PO
VENEZUELA POSITION IN OAS. VIEW THIS, SUGGEST ADDEE ACTIVITIES
CONCENTRATE PRIMARILY (BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY) THIS ASPECT, I.E. EFFORTS
DEMONSTRATE TO LOCAL GOVERNMENTS THAT PUBLIC OPINION IS IN FAVOR
VENEZUELAN POSITION OF TAKING FIRM STAND AGAINST CASTRO.
EMPHASIZE
THAT CURRENT ISSUE BEFORE OAS RAISED BY SISTER REPUBLIC, VICTIM OF
SOVIET AND CHICOM SUPPORTED AGGRESSOR; IMPLICATION BEING THAT ODYOKE
PLAYING NO MORE THAN SUPPORTING ROLE.

2. CONTINUE USE "NO COEXISTENCE WITH CASTRO" THEME. CONSIDER
HAVING LABOR, STUDENT, OTHER ORGS SEND TELEGRAMS TO LOCAL GOFTS AND
OAS IN SUPPORT VENEZ POSITION: FOLLOW BEY UP BY PUBLICIZING TELEGRAMS
IN PRESS. VIA MEDIA SPECULATE WHAT SEEPS LOCAL GOVT MIGHT FAVOR
IN
SUPPORT VENEZ, INCLUDING.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
AVENENTICATIN
OFFICEN

Copy No.
16006

DATE
PCA
DIRECTOR

CONF
INFO

TO
INFO
ROUTINE

CITED 80205
A. BREAK IN DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS WITH CURA ET ALL LA COUNTRIES
B. CURTAILUENT ECONOMIC RELATIONS,
C. ALL POSSIBLE COMMUNICATIONS BREAK,
D. COOPERATIVE SHHYBILLANCK OF AUTHORING CUBAN CARRIERS.

3. WHERE THERS RELUCTANCK ATTACK CASTRO ON POLITICAL GROUNDS
SUGGEST USE PBG THAT CASTRO'S EXPORTING OF REVOLUTION OVERTAKEN
BY NEWER EXPORT COMMODITY, SAMELY CRIME. THIS EXEMPLIFIED BY ACTS
OF ARSON, DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY, MURDER, KIDRAPING, ETC., AND
THẤT CUBA TRAINING OF 80-CALLED REVOLUTIONARIES FROM FROM THROUGHOUT
HEMISPHERE NOTHING MORE THAN SCHOOL FOR CRIME.

4 FOR MONT GUAT BOGO SDOM: ADVISE WHAT ACTION TAKK
END OF MESSAGE
REPS

C/VH/1
C//2
C/WE/3
C/3
C//6
COL
SAS/CA
