104-10172-10107
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)
FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: HSCA 44.40
VOL II
201-128561
INCLUSIVE DATES: OCT 57 - DEC 55
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:
DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE DATE RECEIVED
RECEIVED RETURNED
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)
SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
5/3/78 5/3/78 Betsy Wolf Betsy Wolf Sinte
15 MAY 24 TOMANNA SMITH " "
23 MAY 24 23 MAY 24

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.
VOL II

FBI + other
musc other Docs
3rd Agency
DERIN Maurice Hyman
201-128561

SECRET
DOE-17437
Chief CI/SRS
S. H. Johnson
22 September 1955
James A. PERRY
190178

James A. PERRY, Jr., mailed two letters from Washington, D. C., on
29 June 1955, one to his father, and another to Severino D. GOMEZ; however,
in so doing, PERRY placed the letter to his father in the envelope addressed
to GOMEZ, and the letter to GOMEZ in the envelope addressed to his father.
When the letters were received by PERRY, Sr. and GOMEZ, both noting the
error, they exchanged letters. However, GOMEZ considered the contents of
the letter he had at first received important enough to turn over to his
brother M. Leal GOMEZ, who in turn referred it to the Boston Office of
the FBI.

The letter, in substance, indicated that while PERRY was serving in
South America, under cover for this Agency, he had revealed his true status
to his wife's father, EN CONSALTES, on a visit to South America, and who
later had revealed this information to PERRY's father. In correspondence
following PERRY's father having become knowledgeable of PERRY's true status,
he indicates that therein he might have intimated that his work was not so
hush-hush, and that on that basis PERRY's father "had dropped his card"
in effect, and had told others of PERRY's true status. This letter was a
warning to PERRY's father that he should attempt to correct the indiscretion
of revealing PERRY's status while he was in South America. The letter refers
to other letters which PERRY indicates contained information revealed through
indiscretion on his part, and which he asks his father to destroy.

According to our records, PERRY was granted an Operational Clearance
on 22 May 1953, for use as a witting informant or as a contract agent on
anti-Communist front activities. He was used as a contract agent from
September 1953 to February 1955 in Brazil under DIS cover.

He is of Portuguese extraction, and he or his father had changed the
family name
to SALVES.
WESTERN University. prior to attendance at North-

He attended Northeastern University from 1947 to 1951 and received
an AB Degree; Boston University from 1951 to 1952 where he received an
MA Degree in Latin America Regional Studies; and at Vanderbilt University
from 1952 to 1953 where he earned a Ph.D.
more
than professor-student relationship

vivint file con
201-1138567

SECRET

the letter intended for PERRY's father, advised the FBI that he, GOMEZ,
had attended Boston University during the period PERRY was studying
under HALPERIN. GOMEZ was of the opinion that the HALPERIN-PERRY
relationship was more than just the professor-student type because PERRY
saw HALPERIN during the evenings, but never told GOMEZ what he discussed
with HALPERIN.

GOMEZ also advised that about June 1953, just before PERRY's depart-
ure for Rio de Janeiro, PERRY called HALPERIN on the telephone and at
that time HALPERIN was under investigation. PERRY told GOMEZ that
HALPERIN was in a predicament, and that he, PERRY, felt sorry for him.
Earlier PERRY had told GOMEZ that HALPERIN had a lot of influence in
Washington, and was going to get a job for PERRY.

According to the FBI, the HALPERIN mentioned above, appears to be
identical with Maurice Hyman HALPERIN, former employee of OSS, who was
identified in November 1945 by Elizabeth BENTLEY as having furnished
information for transmittal to the Soviet.

PERRY recently contacted this Agency requesting permission to state
that he had worked for the Agency in his application for employment with
USIA. WH Division, to whom this request was forwarded, was advised that
PERRY was not to disclose his past employment with this Agency.
WH Division, in turn, informed Security of their desires that USIA be
informed of PERRY's past connections with this Agency.

Security, on the basis of the above request by WH Division, contacted
the appropriate person in USIA and advised them on a controlled basis of
PERRY's former affiliation with this Agency.

S. H. Johnson
SRS/SEJ:pal

201-128561

SECRET
(Don filled
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
RI FILE NO. 50 4 120 30
DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. HM-1300 DATE 31 Oct 55
American Communists in Mexico and Their Contacts
SOURCE CRYPTONYM DATE OF INFO. EVALUATION
LIFEAT/LITHOSPHERS B-Doc
ANALYST DATE PROCESSED DATE
D. Heron 13 Sept 57
DISSEMINATED IN

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE TRANSFERRED TO
RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

Report from Mexico City, Mexico
Source: LIFEAT/LITHOSPHERS
Date of Infor 12 Sept - 21 Oct 55
VERBATIM:
The following information concerning American Communists in Mexico and their
contacts has been developed.

1. On 12 September a meeting was held of stockholders in the ice cream business
which functions under the management of the American Communist, Robert STRAND. This
business is believed actually to be owned by the leading American Communist, Frederick
Vanderbilt FIELD. The meeting was held at the home of STRAND, and was attended by the
American Communists Maurice HALPERIN and Noah SEBORER and possibly by other stockholders
......

31 Oct 55
201-178561
FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. 201 185053
SECRET

DATE:
TO
:
COORDINATING OFFICES
CI
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
Larioga Communals - Merico
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONI COP, CI/OPS, CI/IC, FI, FIES, 212, 64, S/C 2

(57183 זנס) כהלן אוט 19 JUL 55
TO: MEXI ROUTINE
CITO: DIRE
HOLD FOR IDEN DEDIR 1150 OUT 56504)

*
JAMES LEIGH WHITE BORN IWA VERMONT NEWSPAPER CONFESPONDENT
AND AUTHOR SINCI: 1939, IN MEXICO CITY SUNE-AUGUST 1941, WIFE
MARIA CRUZ CARROCERA MIRTE HORN 191 SPAIN; SYLVIA AGELOFT,
MISTRESS OF JACQUES MORNARD AND REPORTEDLY IN MEXICO CITY

AT-TIME TROTSKY MURDER, SISTERS LOA AND RUBY: CONGLIATA
DE LA NORA ALLEGEDLY KILLED IN GUATEMALA: FERNANDO DE LOS
RIOS BORN SPAN 1997, SPANISH REPUBLICAN AMBASSADOR TO U.S.
RORTED RECENT YEARS REPRESENTATIVE SHAN SH PUNTA
OF LEDERATION. MEXICO CITY: ALVAREZ DEL VAYO FORN SPAIN
1971 WAS ACTIVE SPANISH RESUGIE ACTIVITIES IN NEW YORK, SON
QUANN LONDON WWII; JULIAN CORKIN PROMINENT TROTSKYITEN
U.S. AND SPAIN IN 40S. WRITER CLOSE TO TROTSKY PRIOR TO
MURDER: NANCY 19 Jul 55
INSTONS REPORTED KEY CP OFFICIAL IN MEXICO

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET 201-128561
IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE Copy Na
RELEASING OFFICER

UNCLASSIFIED
SECRET
DATE:
TO:
FROM:
CONF:
INFO:
DIR 14470 (OUT 57183) 19 JUL 55 PACE 2

STAND OPERATED HOTEL MEXICO CITY WITH HUSBAND ARCILE
OHISTONE WHO WAS FORMERLY WITH LONDON NEW CHRONICLE AND
SAID TO DEI RISSA AT PRESEST MAXIM LEIDER ALIS LEBERMAN

NOPN897 WARSAW REPORTED LIVING NG CUERNAVACA, MEX.CO IN
1951 WITH ALBERT WALTZ FORMERLY OF HOLLYWOOD, ACCUSED
BY CHAMBERS OF SETTING UP SOVIET COVER COMPANY I1 1934,
HAS HAD CONNECT ONS WITH ANNA SECILES AND BOUD VERGE, FRANK
JELLINEK AND HAN HOFFMAN WHO WAS REPORTEDLY TREATING

LEDER 1953 FOR PSYCHIATRIC DISTURBANCE. WIFE MINNA REPORTED
TEACHING AMERICAN SCHOOL MEXICO CITY 1953, REPORTED IN CONTACT

WITH MAURI HALPERIN WAS RECIPIENT FROM FOLSI: BANK
WARSAW 1953: VITTORIO VIDALI ALIAS CARLOS CONTRERAS HEAD OF

CP TRIESTE INTERMITTENTLY EN U.S. AND MEXICO DURING 1940'S.
SUSPECTED DIRECTED MURDER TROTSKY: POMELLE MARIA JOAN

WILLACED OR PELLIACD) ALLEGEDLY ONE OF CORRESPONDING
SECRETARIES OF JUAN NEGEIN 1937-39, REPORTEDLY IN LONDON 1945
COORDINATING OFFICES
RELEASING OFFICER

SECRET
IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE
Copy Na 1.

UNCLASSIFIED
UNCLASSIFIED
UNCLASSIFIED
UNCLASSIFIED
SECRET

DIR 14470 (OUT 57183) 19 JUL 55 PAGE 3

PAID SUBSEQUENTLY IN MEXICO, RELATIVES INCLOSE) ATAIME
VILLACID, (2) QUEN VILLACID MARRIED TO FORMER SPANISH

REPUBLICAN DIPLOMAT JOSE JARE ACO (3) PEREZACID WHO
WAS REPORTED IN MEXICO CITY 1943; FRANK ELL NEK
CORESPONDENT OVERSEAS NEWS AGENCY 1943 IN MEXICO.

(END OF MESSAGE
CI
SECRET
RELEASING OFFICER
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE Copy Na

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
C COP, DO/P-ILR, FI, FI/OES, FI/STC, SR 3, FIRI

DIR 2678 (OUT 95521) 251122 NOV 55
OTOP OR
HAVE CUT PENOS CASH CAVALA. VOBSTOUS HO
UGAT MHS ALL THLE FIE
TODO SY
ACTOR SCHOLAR SUP SITTINEN OLTY WICUT, SA SOCIA
SU
TOL DEALS WIDE SUCCESSIVE, CIR STSTAPRE UNDER

SECRET 201-128561
IT IS FOR 10 RUSE A COPY OF THIS
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET
(2008 Filled in)
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
RI FILE NO. 201 66549
DIPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.
H-1117 DATE 6 June 1955
Noah SEBORER and Family
SOURCE CRYPTONYM DATE OF INFO. EVALUATION
ANALYST DATE PROCESSED
LITHOSPHERE
B-Doc
D Heron 9 Sept 57
DISSEMINATED IN
DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE TRANSFERRED TO
RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT. INFORMATION

Report from Mexico City, Mexico
Date of Infor 12 Feb - 12 May 55

VERBATIM:

II. Contacts

Set out below is a listing of contacts known to have been made by Noah
and Anne SEBORER during the period covered in this reporti
.....

Maurice HALPERIN was dismissed from Boston University because of refusal to answer
questions before a Congressional Committee. With him in Mexico are his son, David, his
wife Edith and, at least during part of April, his or his wife's father. Noah SEBORER
suplied Yiddish newspapers for the father to read. The HALPERINS dined at the SEBORERS
14 May 1955. HALPERIN is believed to be engaged in the trucking transportation business
in connection with the firm E.A. Ojeda at Isabel la Catolica 38-610.
.....
6 June 65
201-128561

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. 201-185053
SECRET
