10.00000
104-10004-10143 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

13-00000

MEMO FOR THE RECORD 1 June 1964
Sx-25605

DISCUSSION between members SR Division,
and CoS Helsinki concerning timetable
OF OSWALD'S stay in Finland and Helsinki

1. At 0900 this morning I talked with Frank Friberg recently
returned COS Helsinki re Warren Commission inguiry concerninge.
the timetable of Oswald's stay in Finland in October 1959, including
his contact with the Soviet Consulate therer. (Copy of the Commission
letter of 25 May 64 and State Cable of 22 May, 64, attached.)

2. Friberg gave me the following information:

a. It takes 25 minutes to drive from the airport to
Helsinki.

b. By taxi, it would take no more than 5 minutes to
reach the Soviet consulate;

c. Consulate in Helsinki was open Saturdays in 1959;

d. Passenger lists (manifests) at the Helsinki airports of
Helsinki are retained for six months only and then are destroyed.
Mr. Robert Fulton (CIA) was U.S. consular official there at
the time.

e. A copy of State's cable inquiry would go to the Helsinki
Station and they would assist in preparation of a reply.

3. Mr. Friberg agreed that it would be worthwhile to cable the
Station concerning points not covered by State in their inquiry. He
suggested changes incorporated into the cable sent to Helsinki.

Lee H. Wigren
C/SR/CI/R
TRAVEL PROGRAM
IP/EDI ABSTRACTA
INDEX
IP/FIS
IP/PH
PREPARE FOR FICKING
FILM
CODE NO. (2,3,4)
RYBAT REST CODE
ISO/DCU
CABLE IDEN (11)
NTD (8)
IP/FILES
FOR FILING

Document Number 716-838
for FOIA Review on JUN 1976
SAME AS RELEASED
DOC -340

RECORD COPY

1. Jun 64
201-289248

Box 8
