14-00000
104-10209-10018
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
MATERIAL--REVIEWED AT CIA-HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFE MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: 201-287249
VOL. IⅡ

INCLUSIVE DATES:
CUSTODI AL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:
DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE
RECEIVED
DATE
RETURNED
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)
SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
shee.78 18 Hee 75
Betsy Wolf
Betey hitlf

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

14-00000

FBI DOC.
29 Sept. 1962 (Wash.)
RE: Semen Spiridon Pohorilyj
DBA-23746

14-00000
Tes
Jai fects
SECRET
Director
7eferal carem of Investiration
Attention: ir. Sada japich
Lopaty Directer (Place)
Corian PILI, also known
Sacen
Internal curity. kussia

1. Feferencs 16 me to yes Letter dated 12 July 1968,
entitled as above, to ar 13/1275ated 25 Septester 1962,
ant to your fils aber 15-71205.

2. Information or rencontre in Farte indicates that
one doch bra 10 Fay Lal, Larim,, possibly a
Soviet citizen, living at la salse, fra, and a Russian refus, ves
Listed by the fresh finistry of Interior as potentially sangeres
tarios Ve visit of Bikiu anos to France frat 15-20 Farva 1760.
Approximately two thousand other individuale vara aiss listed.

3. da strictal French lisissa servien reverted on 9 averer
1962, tont Jasef Al (sic) had ost attracted their attentia
Jus Tresentative advises thes this is tartsoziat te a ne troc

CSC1 3/773,830
//DL. Lyen à Dec 1962
Distributiqu
Orig and I addressee
1 C/CI
1 CI/Liaison
1 an/t1/7/1
-1-2-1-(201-207219)
1
1 CI/3G/SS
1 Cemeback
1 5/1/20
Based on 0774-66156, 20 N 1952
SECRET
ES COPY
:
Ext
201-259249

14-00000

FBI doc.
29 Nov. 1962 (PHiladelphia)
RE: Semen Spiridon Pohonŕlyj
Bufile: 105-93295
DBA 28575

FBI doc.
62 20 November 1962
RE: Semen Spiridon Pohorklyj
DBA 28182

14-00000
DISPATCH

TO
Chief,
INFO
Chief, WE
Chief, E
FROM
CLASSIFICATION
PROCESSING
SECRET
シン
POSED I
ACTION
100000
XERS DESA
ΑΕΣΤΡΑΣΤ
Chief of Station, Vienna
Chief of Station, Paris
SUBJECT REDWOOD/CLEPROVE
Jozef KOZAK
ACTION REQUIED REFERENCES
...
ACTION: None; for information only.

REFERENCES: A. OFPW-34223, 25 September 1962
B. OFPA-67615, 16 October 1962 (not sent Vienna.)

In their Memorandum No. D-5054 dated 9 November 1962, USOUND informed
us that Subject had not attracted U20UD's attention. This is tantamount
to a "no trace" reply.

- redirecrayon
Distribution:
2-SR
2- WE
2-EE
2- Vienna
ES COPY
Robert G. LAMPRELL
CROSS REFERENCE TO
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
DATE TYPED
201-289249
16 Nov 62
deforret
DATE DISPATCHED
20 Nov 1967
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
OFPA-65186
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
201-289249

14-00000
TO
INFO
DISPATCH
Chief, SR
Chief, WE
Chief, EE
FROM
Chief of Station, Paris
SUBJECT: REDWOOD/LCIMPROVE
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
F
PROCESSING
POSED
ACTION
P.SHES
XOOX MARKED FOR INGERING
AD INCER NG REQUIRED
CALI QALE
HEADQUARTERE DESK
CAN ACCE DEONG
AESTRACT
M.CROFILW
Josef KOZAK
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
ACTION: None; FYI only.
REFERENCE: CFFW-34223 of 25 September 1962.20
1. According to Paris Station files:
Joseph KOSAK ARAKIZAK
11-201249
Laict
DPDB: 10 May 1901, Szrdoriben, USSR
Possibly a Soviet citizens
ADDRESS: La Seine, France
Russian Refugee
PRACE REP
was listed by French Ministry of Interior as potentially dangercus during
the visit of Nikita KHRUSHCHEV to France, 15 - 30 March 1960. Approximately
two thousand other individuals were also listed (SOURCE: OFP-8178 of 27 April
1960, page 35).

2. Since Paris Station has terminated AEDOGMA/1, it will not be possible
to obtain further information on Subject from him.

3. We are querying UNBOUND for information on Subject.
Robert J. Lampe
Robert G. LAMPRELL
Distribution:
SR
2- WE
2-EE
CS COPY
INDEX X
CROSS REFERENCE TO
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
DATE TYPED
201-289249
10 Oct 62
DATE DISPATCHED
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
OPPA- 67615
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
201-289249

14-00000

FROM
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
8-E-C-A-B-T
Chief of Station, Paris, COS, Vienna
Cod
POSED
PROCESSING
ACTION
G
CEREQUIRED
ED
MEAGARTERS DESH
CARE INDEXING
ABSTRACT
ACCOM
PISHED
SUELECT
Chief SR, via Chief, WE and Chief, ΕΕ
REDWOOD/LCDIPROVE
Semen Spiridon PCHORILYJ aka Sezen POIORILIM (201-289249) and Jozef KOZAK
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
ака Обур КUZAK
Action Required: See below

1. Attached for your information is an VBI report on an interview
with Andrij DIDKOWSKYJ, contact of Semen PORORILYJ and correspondent
of Antin MYKYPORUK.

2. The FBI has requested any information available in our files
or through UBARK sources concerning KOZAK's current activities and
contacts with the Sovieta. The information on KUZAK in the last para-
graph on page 3 and the top of page of the attachment, is the latest
inforantion we have on KOZAK. This same information was received fra
Paris in CPPA-55817 of 7 December 1960 and gave KOZAK's address as
rue Caston Jaillon, Vesines Chalette, Loiret.

3. To Parto: We would appreciate any information available on
KOZAK's current activities and contacts. You may query liaison.

4. To Vienna: The interview with DIDKOWSKYJ contains a statement
that KOZAK left the camp in Salzburg for France with NYKYPORUK in 1948
or 1949. Other information indicates that KOZAK came to France in 1946
fros Munich. We would appreciate your checking Station and liaison
files for any information on KCZAK, including biographic data and the
date of his departure for France (or Munich). Please send a copy of
your reply to Paris.

Distribution:
Orig. & 2 Paris /e
2- Visma v/a
CROSS REFERENCE TO
SINK
Doris N. Killgo
AKY
Paul K. Stockwood
201-269249
CATE TYPED
10 Sept. 1962
DATE DISPATCHED
EXSPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
SEP MOZ
ROUTING I
RID/A
2
RJDA
PEEC
R
やら
SP/CI/RED
OFFICE SYMBOL
CLASSICATION
CS CUPY
OFF-34223
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
OFFICER
..Lyon
CRIGINATING
TYPIST
tb
COORDINATING
CATE
OFFICER'S NAME
SP/CI/RED 113 5116 le
S3/2
CI/CPS/SS
15 unt
20
/3
J.Evin
ND
Evant
5A/8/8 15027
DESTROY
53 USE PREVIOUS EDITION REPLACES FORN SITE ICH MAY BE USED (40)
RELEASING
OFFICER 55-GHATURE-
DATE
24
ES COPY
EXT.
6991
DISPATCH

14-00000
7瓶风:
SECRET
Strector
Posom baresa of Leatitin
Actection: ... Magica
Deputy Director, (Plars)
Pasen 2
pirmka nkary نعة
Lateral Searity. اشد
25 SEP 1962

1. Asterace la made to your latter dated 12 miy 1958, entitled
as above, and to your fils miser 1
2. to files et sale tey catalanostical intragica ca
so era quas furses
as y
Joser Debt, معنه
abroad for any info
availaule co Barrent Getivities
asi cautoria vita (as čovicts. That will be advised of the resulta ero
car insurice.
:
C1-3/712,123
SR/CI/KED/L.Lyca
Distributions
13 September 12
Addresses. Crig. & 1
1- C/CI
1 - CI/Lieleca
1- CI/A
1-63/CI/P/41
रता-2892419
LAD (201-209249)
ABSTRACT
INDEX
T
1-/3
1-/A
1-C1/20/38
1- Cossback
DATE 13 Sep
1 - SA/CI/MED
Sp
Coord with ES COPY
SECRET
1
ma
Exagtang and
tcciasenicabes

14-00000

FBI doc.
24 Aug. 1962 (Philadelphia)
RS: Semen Spiridon Pohorilyj
Bufile: 105-93295
DBA 20582
ELB FBL&4008

14-00000
PRIOR TO FILING
(WHEN FILLED IN)
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
INSTRUCTIONS
1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back
flap and forward to RID.
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it
records significant action taken or
comments requiring preservation.
FROM:
RID/1
TO: ACTICH BRANCH
If file no. and title shown are not
proper, insert proper file no. below
and forward document to RID/AN.
PROPER FILE NO
TO ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK IF APPROPRIATE
COMMENTS
100 IDATT
10
TOA
wow/3
ROOM
DATE
TO
NO
RECEIVED FORWARDED'
OFFICER S
INITIALS
1.
SR/KIRED
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
٨٤٠٠٠
5015
gunces 1314
FILE TITLE
RID/FI
ABSTRACT
TRACE
REQUEST
*
INDEX
DATE MICROFILMED
PORM
12-59
6100
USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
The repart prousdes
bee kata on Krivenko
Burchart. Thernvestigation
Indicates there is no
parant of contact bitiveen
these persono and
Pahardin
-
Au DBA-23746,
10.00-62 for some
こ
95 10 41
FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)
201289249
DOCUMENT DATE
3 Aug 62
SECRET
DOCUMENT NUMBER
EAVA
30210
(40)
((

14-00000

TO
FROM
DISPATCH
Chief of station, Paris
Chief, SR; Chief, EE; Chief, WE
Chief of Station, Austria
SUBJECT JILDWOO/LCIFROVE/ALDO/1
Semen POROMILY
ACTION RECURED
"For your information.
REFERENCE:S)
A.
"CLASSIRCATION
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO
EAVA-30210
MEAJATE FE NO
201-289249
29-6-106/3
DATE
X
3 August 1962
RE: 433-(CHECK "X" ONE)
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO NDEXING REQUIRED
INDEJONG CAN BE JUCD
5 QUALIFIED HO DESK ONLY
DOM-10664, 23 May 1961
D. CAS1-5566, 24 November 1961-21
In accordance with a recent request from ODERVY, WO
queriod our liaison in regard to Subject and his contacts in
Austria. A copy of their reply, which has been passed directly
to ODENVY in Bern, is attached for your information.
FORM
Christine R. Kerbe
ATTACIFONT: 1/
Liaison Reply dated 24 July 1962 (in German)
Distribution:
2-COS, Paris w/Att.
2- Chief, E v/o Att.
1- Chief, SR w/Att.
1- Chiof, WE w/o Att.
31 July 1962
10-57 53
1409
emil H/W
USE PREVIOUS EDITION
REPLACES FORMS
51-28, 51-28A AND 51-29-
WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.
{
CS COPY
CLASSIFICATION
CONTINUED
201-2812.49.
PAGE NO

14-00000
Subreed
Betr.: PCHORILYI een opiridow,
CHART Vera,
Dr. KRIVANEC Gregor
Hesugi Jo. Anfrage
Fepley in tacationo
AT" IMENT TO EAVA-30210
Dr. Gregor PRIWENKO (Arst, 3.12.10 in law, Udok geb..
seit 1955 durch Einbürgerung Österr. Ethep urolzmünsterco,
Obarlisterr., wh.) war coinerzeit in der Ukraine als Arzt
tätig und kan in Jaro 1943 mit seiner Gett Parla geb.
Kurotschina und seinen beiden Kindern als Fluchtling nach
Österreich. Von 1943 bis 1945 war er als Arzt in Kranken-
haus Ried i. I., später im Allgemeinen Krankenhaus in Ling
und dann bis 1952 als Fluchtlingsarzt in chemaligen Flüch
lingslager Kied 1. I. angestellt. Seit 1952 geht er keiner
geregelten Arbeit mehr nach. Als Befürsorgter übt er noch
fallweise stillschweigend geduldet die Heilpraxis uus. In
Übrigen betätigt er sich als Organist und Chordirigent in
der griechisch-orthod. Kirche in Salzburg. Seine Gattin, die
seinerseit in der Ukraine angeblich Sängerin war, ist gleich-
falls musikalisch tätig. Der Sohn Dr. KRIENTOS studiert
Sprachen, die Tochter ist kränklich und steht in keinen
Arbeitsverhältnis. Ein Bruder Dr. KRITENKOS ist angeblich
noch in der UdSSR als Arst angestellt.
Dr. KRITENKO lebt mit seiner Familie in sehr bescheidenen
Verhältnissen, ist sehr religiös eingestellt und als Antir
kommunist bekannt. Die gange Familie genießt einen guten Ruf.

Veronika (Vera) BURCHART geb. Chermilewski (17.2.1901
in BAR/Ukraine_ged., seit 1957 durch Einbürgerung Österr.St.,
Untereitzing 32, Bes. Kied 1.I./Oberösterr., wh.) kam nit
ihren Gatten Wilhelm FURCHART (26.4.1887 in Jedenier/Ukr. ed.)
CS COPY
3 ang CHEC
EVELI TO FAVA 30210
201-28924

14-00000
-2-
gleichfalls im Jahre 1943 als Fluchtling von der Ukraine
nach Österreich, Wilhelm BUNCHART war in der Ukraine
Fabrikadirektor. 1961 veratarb er in Ried 1.I. Veronika
BURCHART erhält sine Rente. Sie tritt in keiner Feise nach-
teilig in Erscheinung.

Die bisherigen Erhobungen erbrachten keine Arhalts-
punkte dafür, daß die Vorgenannten Verbindung zu dem in
Philadelphia lebenden Semen Spiridow ORORILii haben.
Sollten die weiteren Erhebungen in dieser Hinsicht Positives
erbringen, wird der do. Stelle davon Mitteilung gemacht
werden.
24.7.1962
:

14-00000

FBI doc.
12 July 1962 (Wash.)
RE: Semen Spiridon Pohorilyj, aka
Bufile: (E) 105-93295
DBA 13988

14-00000
TO
FROM
DISPATCH
Chief of Station, Paris
INFO
CLASSIFICATION
POSED
SECRET
PROCESSING
ACTION
MARKED FOR DEDUNG
XXX
ROINDEXING
OPLY QUALIFIE
MEADO, ARTERS DESE
CAR FOGE IACING
ABSTRACT
MICROFILM
Chief SR, via Chief WB
SUBJECT
REDWOOD/LCINPROVE
Semen Spiridon POHORILYJ
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
ACTION: None, FYI
Exck dau
PLISHED
DATE TYPED
201-239249
DATE DISPATCHED
16 May 1962 25 MAY 1962

CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
OFFW-33472
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
201-289249
ORIGINATING
fan
TYPIST
aes
COORDINATING
OFFICE
Attached for your information is a copy of an ODENVY report
dated 20 April 1962, on an interview with Subject on 13 April 1962.
IK
Doris M. Killgo
PKY
Hortimer F. Bingham
Distribution:
3 COS Pairs v/att
ROUTING
INITIAL
OFFICE SYMBOL
DATE
EXT
6991
RID/AN
- REDK
1-SR/C SR/CD
C/SR/CI/RED 6/5.
RID/MES WB/3
C/SR/2
RID/PS
FI/SPOG
20
RED/FT
SR/C1/20D the
OFFICE SYMBOL
DATE
C/WE/3
9-60
FORM 53
USE PREVIOUS EDITION REPLACES FORM $100 WHICH MAY BE USED
RELEASING
OFFICER'S NAME
OFFICER'S SIGNATURE
2.1 Way out the
DISPATCH

14-00000
SECRET
TO:

Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Hr. 8. J. Parich
FRCM:

Deputy Director (Plans)
SUBJECT:

252
Sesen Spiridon PUHURILYJ also known as Semen PCHORILIW
Internal Security - Russia

1. Reference is nede to your memorandum of 5 February 1962
regarding the Subject and to your file muster 105-93295 (Ε).

2. An interviev of Subject by your Dureau, under the condi-
tions outlined in the reference, would not adversely affect any of
this Agency's sources or operations. We would appreciate any in-
formation you may obtain from Subject on his contacts and associates
abroad.

CECI-3/769,591
SR/CI/RED/LLyon:aoh
Distribution:
Orig & 1 Addressee
1- C/CI
1 - CI/Liaison
1 - CI/R&A
1- SR/CI/P/d1
1 - SR/CI/RED
1- Comeback
23 February 1962

RI/Files (201-209249
Reference: DBA-396, 5 February 1962
SECRET
CS COPY
201-289249

14-00000

FBI doc.
20 April 1962
(Philadelphia)
RE: Semen Spiridon Pohorilyj
Bufile: 105-93295
. DBA 7408

FBI doc.
5 Feb. 1962 (Wash.)
RE: Semen Spiridon Pohorilyj, aka
Bufile: 105-93295 (E)

14-00000
FR
TO:
SECRET
19 1962
TC:
Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich
Deputy Director (Plans)
SUBJECT: Semen Spiridon PSORILYJ also known as Senen PURILE
and Andrij LIDIWSKYJ also known as DIALANSKY (fmu)
Internal Security Russia

1. Reference is made to previcus correspondence from this of-
fice regarding the Subjects and to your file number 105-93295.

2. The files of this Agency contain no identifiable informa-
tion on Andrij DIDKOWSKYJ of 731 Forth Beventh Street, Fhiladelphia,
Prinsylvania. We have not checked our sources abroad and will not
do so unless this action is specifically roquested by you.

3. Aemsitive Austrian scurce provided the following inforza-
tion on tamen Spiridon POHORILYJ on 31 October 1961:

هراء
"Semen POHCRILYI - born 2 February 1910 in Czerkassy/
Kiev, married, teacher, Ukrainian citizen, resided at
the refugee camp in Siezamheim, Salzburg, from 13 July
1950 to 23 August 1950. Prior to 13 July 1950 he lived
at the Hellbrunn refugee camp in Salzburg. According
to police records Subject left Salzburg for the United
States on 23 August 1950."

4. Additional information from the same sensitive source, in
the form of a photographic copy of the official police registration
card and a negative of an identification photograph of Subject, both
anted 7 Noveaber 1947, reveals that

"Besen PORILYJ - born 2 February 1910 in Praenyal,
is a Polish citizen, married, teacher, 173 cm tall, sray
eyes, blond bair, oval face, no prominent or identifying
features."
SECRET
1
:
CS COPY
201-289249

14-00000
SECRET
-2-

A copy of the photograph is attached for your information. The date
on the registration card presumably indicates the date on which Sub-
ject vas first officially registered by the Salzburg police.

CSCI-3/769,019
Attachment As stated
SR/CI/RED/LLyon:afo
Distribution:
15 January 1962
Orig & 1 Addressee, w/att.
1-C/CI, w/o att.
1- CI/LSIN, w/o att.
1-CI/RLA, w/o att.
1-SR/CI/P/dl, w/o att.
1SR/CI/RED, w/o att.
1.EE/A, w/o att.
1- Comeback, v/o att.
1 RI/Files, w/o att. (201-289249)

Reference-DEF-96946, 21 December 1961
Based on EASA-05566, 24 November 1961
SECRET

14-00000
SECRET
THIS BLAM CAS6162
SEMAN LETTER AND IN SOMAL CACER)
DIDFSKYJ,
Andrij
2. ALIASES, VARIANT SPELLINGS, CTC NUMBERS. ETC.
DIALNAWSKY
3. 8147 CATE
30 Νου 1890,
4. Bitin PLACE
Didkowitscze, Ukraine
5. CITIZENSHIP
U.S. in 1958
6: PRESENT ACTIVITY AND LOCATION
Retired lives at 631 North 7th St. Philadelphi
Pa.
7. OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTIES, EL JCATION
Laborer
SPONSE TO GREEN LIST
REQUEST NO 100092
CATE OF DECUEST
REQUEST FROM
5 Jan 62
NAME OF ORIGINATING OFFICER
L. Lyon
OFFICE DESIGNATOUSR/CI/RED
00CM. BuL011501 J
EXTENS18251
2. WAS CONTINUING GEAPC-EQUESTED
S. TAPE OF PEQUEST
FIRST TIME SHEMISTES
ACCITIONAL DATA
INTEREST IN SLEJECT
SPIONAGE OR CE ACTI
OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE
MATION RECUIRED
All information
VES
8. MILITARY SERVICE
SERVICE AM, COUNTRY
SPECIALTY
9. PAST OCCUPATIONS
ACTIVITY
1904 to 1920 resided in Pussia.
1920 to 1943
in Poland
1943 to 1951 Salzburg, Austria
1951 to Sept. 1958 - Philadelphia
LOCATION
LOCATION
DATES
CATES
10. DESCRIPTION
(HEIGHT)
611"
11. SPOUSE (IF WIFE, GIVE MAIDEN NAME)
(WEIGHT)
170
(EYES)
Brown
(1)
(DACE)
Black-grey White
(СТЧЕР)
Wira Sergel, born 1897 in the Ukraine. Resides at Kostppol, Ukraine..
12. OTHER MEMBERS OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, AND ASSOCIATES
13. OTHER SIGNIFICANT DATA (POLITICS, RELIGION, ETC)
ATTACH EXTRA SHEETS WHEN NEEDED
INSTRUCTIONS:
INSERT CARBON: FILL OUT FORMS COMPLETELY.
SEND BOTH SHEETS TO FI/D.
SEE CS1-10-7.
FORM
11-54501 USE PREVIOUSITIONS.
SECRET
(9)

14-00000
L. Lyon
4:
FI/D
4.
6.
c.
г.
Ε.
SECRET
11 January 1962
CATE
SEE DOSSIER ON SUBJECT IN FI/O BICGFAPHIC FILES.
A MEMORANDUM IS ATTACHED MERETO.
WITH THE LIMITED IDENTIFICATION PROVIDED IN THE REQUEST, FI/O IS UNABLE TO
DETERMINE WHETHER THERE IS INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT OR NOT.
FLID HAS NO INFORMATION GA SUBJECT. IF A CONTINUING SEARCH WAS
REQUESTED IN SECTION 14, INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT WILL BE REFCFTED TO
YOU AS IT BECOMES AVAILABLE.
THE SLEJECT OF THIS REQUEST IS APPARENTLY THE SUBJECT OF THE FOLLOWING:
TE TO THE CRIGINATING OFFICE
THE SUBJECT IS NO LONGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHEET, WITH THE FOLLOWING CANCELLATION
ICE COMPLETED. SHOULD BE SENT TO FI/D.

1E4 YOUR FILE OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, AND SEND TO FIND THE SHEETS FOR PERSONS THAT APE NO
GER OF SUFFICIENT INTEPEST TO DEMAND A CONTINUING NAME CHECK. PLEASE DO NOT TIE UP FI/D'S
ILITIES WITH CONTINUING SEARCHES FOR INFORMATION THAT IS CT REQUIRED.

FI/D
4:
NAME
OFFICE DESIGNATOR
ROOM, BUILDING
EXTENSION
CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST
SECRET
DATE
