14-00000

104-10234-10115 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DESTROY
MESSAGE FOR! TOT COMIC"

MARVIN FRANCIS:ack
WH/C/PI/TC INDEX SECRET
R. 1271 NO INDEX 20-040
20 ZARCH 1993 FILE CILE NO. 201-720019

1 ROME BONN INFO: PARIS, GERMANY, FRANKFURT, DERN, GENEVA
RETURN TO LICH
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
FILE
ROUTING MOP
1 TC
2 FI
5 CI
CA
17 PA
4

A: DIRECTOR
Dell INFO: VR FILE RID COPY elez
CW/C/RF/SI

ROME BONN INFO PARI GANY FRAN BERN CITE DIR
GNVA
TYPICO APRON AUWHIP AMWEST
REFS: A. ROME 9425 (IN 80558) (NOT SENT BONN) Som
B. FRAN 2758 (IN 83177) (NOT SENT BONN) 92482
C. ROME 9478 (IN 85022) (NOT SENT BONN) Grace

1. SUBJECT REF A PARA 3 TRACE REQUEST IS AMWEST/1 WHO
: APPROACHED BY KUBARK APR 65 FOR RECRUITMENT. A/1 AGREED COOPERATE
:
: BUT FOLLOWING AUG 65 TRIP PARIS REVERSED HIS DECISION AND REFUSED
:
RECRUITMENT. BONN C/O MANGANELLO (M) HOWEVER HAS MAINTAINED
CONTACT WITH AMWEST/1'S WIFE, AMWEST/2 WHO HAS CONTINUED BE COOPERA-
TIVE. M HAS BEEN REQUESTED OBTAIN CURRENT ASSESSMENT AMWEST/1
FROM ANWEST/2, AND IF ASSESSMENT FAVORABLE TO PROCEED WITH RECRUITMENT
OR DEFECTION OF AMWEST/1 ALONG PREVIOUSLY ESTABLISHED GUIDELINES,

2. FOR ROME, FRAN, GNVA: DURING BRIEF 23 MAR PHONE CONTACT
WITH AMWEST/2, M CONFIRMED THAT AMWEST/1 IS UPSET DUE RECENT ARRESTS
AND PURGES. AMWEST/2 STATED THAT AMWEST/1 TO MEET ANTONIO CARRILLO
IN GENEVA SOON FOR TALKS. AMWEST/1 CONCERNED ABOUT POSSIBLE REASSIGN-
MENT SINCE HE NOT PARTICULAR FAVORITE OF CARRILLO AND WAS FRIEND OF
AMLASH/1. 1

3. FOR BONN, ATTN MANGANELLO: AMWHIP-2 (IDEN BONN ONLY)
AMLASH-1
RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
31-5 SECRET GROUP 1
Excluded from automate
deungracing ond
declasticor
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. COPY NO.
8
4
9
2
:
3

14-00000
:
MESSAGE FO TOTAL COPIES:

ORIG: DESTROY RETURN TO BRANCH FILE
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
ROUTING
UNIT: INDEX SECRET 1 5
EXT: NO INDEX 2 6
DATE: FILE IN CS FILE NO. 3 7
4 8
TO : PAGE TWO

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: INFO: VR FILE RID COPY

TO INFO CITE DIR 92482

IS ROME ASSET. HIS WIFE OF CURRENT OPS INTEREST DUE HER PROPOSED
SUMMER TRIP TO VISIT SICK MOTHER IN PBRUMEN, WHERE SHE MAY POSSIBLY
CONTACT HIGH LEVEL PBRUMEN MILITARY FRIEND ON OUR BEHALF. BRIEFLY
REFS SURFACE POSSIBILITY OF DANGER TO AMWHIP/2'S WIFE DURING TRIP
DUE PROBABILITY PERUMEN AUTHORITIES AND ANTONIO CARRILLO
KNOWLEDGEABLE OF AMWHIP/2'S PAST BUSINESS ASSOCIATION WITH AMLASH/1.
DURING 22 AND 23 MAR PHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN AMWHIPS AND CARRILLO,
LATTER GUARANTEED AMWHIP/2'S WIFE'S SAFETY WHILE PBRUMEN. HOWEVER
CARRILLO'S CURIOUS REFERRAL OF AMWHIPS TO AMWEST/1 AS CONTACT DURING
HIS (CARRILLO'S) ABSENCE HAS RAISED THE QUESTION OF A POSSIBLE
PROVOCATION ATTEMPT. THIS PARTICULARILY VALID SINCE ALL PARTIES
CONTAMINATED BY PAST AMLASH/1 ASSOCIATION, AND DUE AMWEST/2'S STATEMENTS
RE CURRENT AMWEST/1-CARRILLO RELATIONSHIP.

4. VIEW ABOVE SITUATION, SUGGEST NO CONTACT BETWEEN AMWESTS
AND AMWHIPS. REQUEST REPORT DETAILS AMWEST/1-CARRILLO MEETING AS SOON
AS THEY CAN BE OBTAINED FROM AMWEST/2. MEETING OUTCOME SHOULD
ESTABLISH AMWEST/1'S FUTURE STATUS AND ALSO RESOLVE PROVOCATION QUESTION..
END OF MESSAGE

COORDINATING OFFICERS
3
2
RELEASING OFFICER AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
REPRODUCTION SECRET GROUP 1
-Excluded from autorile COPY NO.
downgrading and
fication
OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS COHIBITED.

14-00000

MESSAGE FOR
TOTAL COPIE!. DESTRO RETURN TO BRANCH FILE RI
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
ROUTING
'IG : INDEX 1 5
IT: NO INDEX SECRE 2 6
T: 3 7
TE : FILE IN CS FILE NO. 4 8
:
PAGE THREE

IOM: DIRECTOR

INF: INFO: VR FILE RID COPY

CITE DIR 92482

WH/C/RR/MHAPRON 8.4. Rok 5
C/MI/C/F1
WH/C/CICS
WE/3
:
EE/SA/S
C/WE
le
C/EE/OFS
WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WH
RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
SECRET GROUP 1
Excluded from automi COPY NO.
downgrading and
declosurechao
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

14-00000
DES
MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPISSI RETURN TO BRANCH FILL D
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
ROUTING
MOP
20
MARVIN FRANCIS:ack 1
ORIG: TC 5
UNIT: WH/C/FI/TC INDEX SECRET CL
21 2
EXT: R. 1271 NO INDEX CA 16
3 F
DATE: 29 MARCH 1966 FILE IN CS FILE NO. PA 7
4 8
TO 1 BONN
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONFI RID COPY
TO BONN DESENSITIZED INFO
C/CIC/FI-2 2/FI/D-4 C/EE'S
CITE DIR 92483
ТУРІС КАPOK MHAPRON AMWEST AMWHIP
REF: DIR 92482

IDEN REF: JUAN VENTURA VALNER, CUBAN EXILE WHO OWNS
JEWELRY SHOP AND RESIDES GENEVA. MAKES INFREQUENT
BUSINESS TRIPS TO ROME.

END OF MESSAGE

WH/C/RR/MHAPRON 8. W. Robert
WH/C/CICS Last
RELEASING OFFICER 31-6 COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
C/WH/C/F/22-Willia
EE/G 2. Kuns WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WH
GROUPI
Excluded fromac COPY NO
downgrading and
duc laureate

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
/EB/OFS
