1400000
104-10072-10013
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title
18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
COUNTRY 
SUBJECT Clog & Singer, Boviot Bacar Shat
DATE OF
INFO
PLACE &
DATE ACQ
REPORT NO. 00-A-3,203,015
DATE DISTR. 14 December 1961
20 Bov NO. PAGES 3
SOURCES Cities,
REFERENCES 
NO. PAGES
(NY-52511)
cis morgan 5
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION Gel went Cen
Polytechcrowne
dorantem tepartent of a han
Can Primera
D to do part festivala resceral work in n
Dogarunmat of Amlody untor ita agarvision of Kyat and Ay one
can it went datain that he muld wanne ea partel of the
mates. He bak hoen Nemo loan toan e evita bra bis non can mewrgiatzz6
Стрелбата севамici on & Ent 6. Vries to emion base, Ba B
Saigntirio Ascentace of the basine of Palm, dit the
F Ure wiry much Atstarbed by Piroger's atta Spartans bove
montabla, on Prorunor Play Allah
Institute of Giral Nories, Form, warm well w
amlich in its acivo in a cada cava en
wy caseiliatory. 10 cosmet Size Wirage com ask For wa
"По ага батеenly cay, 1821, σελ αlk wito
P. HOT, AND euch tablar bus arival to den, 20 Now i
AROCCAT GINO eso sent by the Katie Mulary of Sudroro, to
Ettaler Thmeindaraan
test 1,
Paarthat of the fasion of Rotem
no moly has a rekund, oF ANTI
5
* Prof. Herman Mark Muving Goodinan
2
STATE ARMY NAVY 
A
FDI
JAEC
12/4 Cogy to
FI/SIG and SR/6.
3
2
1
NO DISSEN AERGAD
NOPORN
ZITTED Domination limited to full-time employees of CIA, ADC and I, and
offien producing NIS olamanco, and higher cahlans with thois immodista vustorting char
RETURN TO CIA
Bayground Use Only
Not Reproduca
1066

14-00000

wackyting for the Emit get
Con the
Matani cans sa which
to kn
. Hayattat in pamplo t
• Teuk City, may have reacted the man wees
chach for other rescue, Sar Me
o feeling to that ito paya
forint Suter-
preare on Pat fremme at Otk Mement
chromây have out thay tro Caimg.
uno Cisalosing more than ho demid.
to the cat placard Cor ban
work on such a grupset
सनीधी
et Camionl Mauken.
not unng for bin to talk t
est osmos to all
the Di Dalayim affion did not in tiên trêna of bio varand
te commtty here. the stateste lund kòa cunt to mat to d
brously of sy tonzo. Ho distrzałty cotal 2010 è l
8090

14-00000

moto?
vestored the digna, b
Intimate with tum ar fifta
n Italini, temel De Braškio K
γων και to victis of an infr.: Клонин
oct of the yapars eat chara o lesk. A me
0608
