1104-10069-10359

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
SE ORLY
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

Current Address of Maurice Halperin

FROM: EXTENSION
Chief, Contact Division (Support) Stuntz 2268

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and DATE OFFICER'S RECEIVED FORWARDED building) INITIALS
1. TFW WH 729 Sr.

2. Jos Krages CE2702

3. TFw Ycet Hana

4.

5.

6. Contact division Support) string

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM 610 USE PREVIOUS SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL UNCLASSIFIED
3-62 EDITIONS USE ONLY

#09254
14-00000
SECRET

Subject: Current Address of Maurice Halperin
004(S)3246933
WSYRO-8060
27 December 1962
Preston E. James
342 Huntington B. Crane Hall
Syracuse University

1. A source of this office has just advised us that he received
a Christmas card (1962) from Maurice Halperin on which the return address
was given as: "Apt C-2, Calle 12, no 103, Miramar, Habana, Cuba." The
only message on the card was one of Christmas greetings. Helperin and
our source have known each other for a number of years and they always
exchange Christmas cards. This is the first one Halperin has sent with
a Cuban address on it. The last time that our source saw Halperin was
in Moscow when he (the former) was visiting in the USSR during August-
September 1961 as part of an official US delegation.

2. In view of Halperin's past activities and associations, we are
making this information known to you. Our source comments that Helperin
always seems to show up wherever there is some sort of activity going
on.
-end-

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY
SECRET
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
WH-729
