104-10165-10169

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INDEX: YES
CLASSIFY TO FILES.
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIL 50
S-BEF TO FILE NO.
OBOLE
FILE RIDO RET. TO BRANCH
SECRET
DESTROY
SIG.
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ACTION
IMWAVE
MR. NAPOLI
ADVANCE COPY
RID COPY
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
1
5
2
7

UNIT
WHR
TIME
SLOTT
BY
TUPED

CAZ CA/19

FILE, VR WH/08 5:06 004, DO/N3, CHOPS, ...
SECRET3131262

3054251.

16-26
IMMEDIATE SDOM INFO IMMEDIATE DIR SNDRCITE WAVE 5413

DYVOUR PERUMEN

PEF (SDOM 674&IN 42286)
1. PLANE PROCUREMENT PROBLEM DIFFICULT DUET DEADLINE
BUT HAVE STARTED TRY WORK OUT SOLUTION TRYING ARRANGE CHARTER
IN AMCORE-2) NAME DC-3 TYPE AIRCRAFT. WAVE AIR OFFICER USING
24
CLEARED CONTACT WITH KUBARK PROPRIETARY AS FRONT IN TRYING
ARRANGE CHARTER WITH OTHER SER SERVICE SUCH AS MACKEY AIRLINES.
CLEARED CONTACT WOULD TELL SUPPLIER THAT AMCORE-2 HEAD OF
CROUP TRAVELLING NEWSMEN STRANDED SDOM THRU PLANE FAILURE, ADD
AMCORE-2 KNOWN TO HIM AS RELIABLE PERSON AND HE WILLING VOUCH
FOR AMCORE-2 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND IF NECESSARY TO
ADVANCE CHARTER PRICE. CONTACT WOULD TELL SUPPLIER AMCORE-2
VILL ARRANGE NECESSARY LANDING, REFUELLING CLEARANCES AT SDOM
COMMERCIAL AIRPORT.
2. IF SUCCESSFUL IN ARRANGING CHARTER, MAY WISH FOR
COVER REASONS THAT ANCORE-2 SEND CABLE (PHONE NOT NECESSARY AND
NIGHT CONFUSE SITUATION) TO SUPPLIER CONFIRMING REQUEST FOR
CHARTER FLIGHT. WILL ADVISE LATER RE DETAILS.

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Onty
Do Not Reproduce

4/)

14-00000
IN 42317
P2.2
3. IN ORDER TRY ADD COVER AT SDOM END SUGGEST ANCORE-2
16-10
INDICATE TO HIS PARTY THAT IMBERT PROVIDING HIM WITH FUNDS 16-10
TO CHARTER REPLACEMENT PLANE TO GET GROUP BACK TO MIAMI. [SDCH
CAN THE PASS FUNDS TO ANCORE -2. POSSIBLY COULD GET INSERT
TO BACKSTOP STORY HE GAVE MONEY TO AMCORE-2.
SECRET
24
CFN 5413 6745 AMCORE-2 DC-3 KUBARK MACKEY AIRLINES -2 THRU
-2-2-2-2 NOT NECESSARY RE -2 IMBERT MIAMI -2 IMBERT -2
BT
*PRIVATE AIRCRAFT
SHOULD
BE
OBTAINED
FOR TRIP

SECRET

3/01
