104-10171-10039 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
3P

DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
S-E-C-R-E-T
PROCESSING
ACTION
ACTION REQUERED REFERENCES
Chief, Task Force W
MAPED FOR INELLING
NOINDERING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED
HEADQUARTERS DESK
CAN FUDGE INOCKING
ABSTRAC!
ACCOM
PLISHED

Chief of Station, JUWAVE
NO
Operational/GYROSE, KUCAGE/AMHINT.
Debriefing of PBRUMEN Legal Travelers for PW Aspects

Action: FYI and files
Ref : WAVE 3748
MISS FILMED
JUN 1.1.1962

1. Ca 15 May 1962, at about 1730 hours local, JMWAVE conducted
a PW debriefing of the following legal travelers:
a.
F 05
09
Raquel LA VILLA Gonzalez, PDOB: 10 Jan 1940, Havana. Avenue
08
19 No. 3611 Marianao, Havana, Employed as clerk in
Ministerio Comercio Exterior, Department of "Empresas y
Alimentos", Foreign Exchange Section. Subject has been
militant in the DRE since late 1900, working as a pessenger
and confidant for contacts in their legal apparat (not the
clandestine net). Subject arrived in Miami on PAA Flight
422 on 15 May 1962.
05
09
b. Cecilia LAVILLA Gonzalez, PDOB: 18 June 1943, Havana.
08 Avenue 19 No. 2614 Marinhao, Havana. Unemployed. Student
Subject is sister of a. above and has assisted her in a
similar capacity.
SELLE
F 09
05
c. Miriam BARO Esteva, PDOB: 26 Oct 1937, Palma Soriano, Oriente
Distribution:
C/TFW
3

Province Calle 27 No. 906) Vedado, Havana. In Miami;
08
AIMIAMI, FLA Q.T.CUBA
RE PW DEGRIETING or SubsFeta 1962

17-120-19
19-170-14
DATE TYPED
DATE CYSPATCHED
INDEX
CROSS REFERENCE
30 Nay 1962
DESPACH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
TO
I'S COPY
UFGA-4211
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
CLASSIFICATION
S-E-C-R-E-T
19-120-19/3
91BR

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
SE-C-R-E-T
UFGA-4211

220 NE 26th Terrace, Miami. Subject was employed-as
receptionest_in_the office_of her brother Carlos BARO 06
a dentist in the L & 23rd Bldg Vedado. Subject arrived
in Miami on PAA Flight 422 on S Nay 1962.
08
2. Subjects a and b are sisters and were questioned together. On
the topic of reception of radio programs in Cuba, both were agreed that
the best reception was the "Voz de las Americas" which came in strong
and clear with rarely any interference jamming. Program content was
described as generally good, gave a morale boost to the audience and
was becoming popular.

3. In commenting on Radio Las Americas, they pointed out that
they had not heard it or attempted to tune in because they felf the
quality was much the same as its predecessor, "Radio Swan" which lost
its prestige prior to and during the April 1961 invasion attempt. Both
declared this was a general opinion among their acquaintances.

4. Subjects commented very favorably on programs heard over
station XEW, Mexico and WRUL, New York, describing reception and con-
tent as good and with large audiences in Cuba.

5. In referring to other programs, subjects reported that on
1 May, relatives in the Matanzas area telephoned them in Havana to tell
them that the "students" (DRE) were on again (TV intrusion). Also,
later in the day, friends in the Vedado area called to tell them to
tune into Channel 2, that there was a program there(about 2115 hours
local). Unfortunately, they had already sold their TV set since they
were leaving soon. Both agreed that the system of announcing the TV
intrusion broadcasts over CONTE Aguero's program on WRUL a few minutes
prior to the intrusion was the key to large audiences. Almost all
GOC oppositionists upon hearing this announcement, start telephoning:
their friends to tune into the TV channel announced.

6. Concerning the DRE internal organization, subjects reported
that they had not been active recently and not witting to clandestine
operations. They were aware, however, that the DRE internal net was
waiting for the infiltration of AMHINT-53 or AMHINT-2 to brief them on
the situation in exile and what support would be forthcoming. They.
reiterated the reports on two bombs set off in the university area by
the DRE and burning of cane and henequen fields in Matanzas and Las
Villas.

7. When queried on disturbances in Las Villas and/or Katanzas on
or about 3 May, they replied that they heard the persistent rumor that
a unit (company or regiment unknown) of militia had bolted and gone
up into the Escambray Mountains. No further details were known.

8. When questioned on written propaganda such as flysheets or
clandestine newsheets, both declared that the last propaganda seen was
the clandestine issue on "Trinchera" (DRE organ), that no other pro-
paganda sheets had been seen since before the April invasion.

9. When asked their impression on anti-CASTRO propaganda in
general they felt that it was too negative; that while the exiles and
opposition groups were busy tearing down the image of CASTRO, he was
before the people with some proposal that was based either on truth,
had a ring of truth in it, or at least appealed to the masses. That
some of their contacts with young girls who served as "brigadistas"
(rural tutors in the campaign for literacy) turned up interesting
remarks. These girls claimed that many of the country folk. would throw
their hands in dismay when Communism was mentioned to them, and
RIBR

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
S-E-C-R-E-T
UFGA-4211

10. Subjects also felt that propaganda should be directed more
toward that sector of Cubans that are not fanatic Fidelistas or
communists, and have not commited, themselves to the opposition movement
for such reasons as indolence, lack of courage, or economic docibility:
Raquel remarked that our propaganda seemed to be divided into two
broad categories, one directed at or attacking the hard-core Fidelistas
and the other for opposition movement consumption.

11. Subject c above was debriefed for her report on reception of
a FALCON broadcast in Havana on 1 May 1962. She stated that she was
called by a friend at about 2100 hours on 1 May and told that the DRE
Trinchera program was being broadcast over Channel 2 at that moment.
Miriam turned on her TV and does not recall how high she had to turn up
the volume, but to her recollection, not higher than normal. She heard
very clearly, the monologue rebuttal of the CASTRO speech earlier that
afternoon. She immediately called two of her friends and subsequently
received calls from them and others on reception of the program. Her
account of parts of the program and the times stated agree with WAVE'
file copies of the program script.

END OF DISPATCH

11-120.19
