104-10123-10407

ADMINISTRATIVE
INTERNAL USE ONLY

4 August 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR: Security Advisor, Honor and Merit Awards Board
SUBJECT : Honor Recommendation for JAMES W. MCCORD, JR.

The attached recommendation for an Honor and Merit Award is
forwarded for your information and recommendations concerning any
security measures that should be taken in the processing of this
award.

Attachment

Distribution:
Orig Addressee
1 HMAB Case File

ELLIN L. BEATTY
Executive Secretary/HMAB

SECRET

RECOMMENDATION FOR HONOR OR MERIT AWARD
(Submit in duplicate)

TO: Secretariat, Honor and Merit Awards Board
FROM: Director of Security
Personal Data
1. NAME OF PERSON RECOMMENDED (Last, First, Middle)
McCORD, James W., Jr.
HQTRS
3. GRADE 4. SD
15 SS
5. OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENT
OS/Technical Division
HEADQUARTERS
6. FIELD
7. HOME ADDRESS
6801 Floyd Ave., Springfield, Va. 4192 U. S. Birth
10. RECOMMENDED AWARD
Certificate of Distinction
12. NAME OF NEXT OF KIN
Sarah Ruth McCord
13. RELATIONSHIP
Wife
14. HOME ADDRESS
Same as 7
15. HOME PHONE
451-5279
Recommendation for Award for Heroic Action or Acceptance of Hazard
16. WERE YOU AN EYEWITNESS TO THE ACT
YES
NO
Personnel in immediate vicinity or who assisted in act or shared in same hazard:
17. FULL NAME
18. ORGN. TITLE
19. GRADE
20. OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENT

List any of the above persons given an award or recommended for award for participating in act:
21. FULL NAME
22. TYPE OF AWARD

Conditions under which act was performed:
23. LOCATION
24. INCLUSIVE DATES
25. TIME OF DAY

26. PREVAILING GEOGRAPHIC CONDITIONS AND OBSTACLES ENCOUNTERED

Recommendation for Award for Achievement, Service, or Performance
27. DO YOU HAVE PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE OF THE SERVICE OR PERFORMANCE YES
28. OFFICIAL ASSIGNMENT AT TIME OF SERVICE OR PERFORMANCE
Chief, Technical Division, OS

29. COMPONENT OR STATION
Headquarters
30. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

Supervises the activities of the Technical Division, OS

Personnel who assisted or contributed substantially to the service or performance
31. FULL NAME
32. ORGN. TITLE
33. GRADE
34. OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENT
MARCY, William M.
Elec. Engr.
PETIT, Alan F.
Elec. Engr.
10
13
OS/Technical Division
OS/Technical Division

List any of the above persons given an award or recommended for award for participating in the performance
35. FULL NAME
36. TYPE OF AWARD
MARCY, William M.
PETIT, Alan F.
Certificate of Distinction

37. INCLUSIVE DATES FOR WHICH RECOMMENDED
38.
ASSIGNMENT COMPLETED
39. NOW IN SAME OR RELATED ASSIGNMENT
YES
NO
YES
NO

SECRET

Award for Heroic Action or Acceptance of Hazard: Was act voluntary? Describe why act was outstanding, and if it was more than normally expected. Explain, why, and how. If an aerial or marine operation, describe type and position of craft, crew position of individual, and all unusual circumstances. Indicate results of the act.

Award for Achievement, Service, or Performance: State character of service during period for which recommended. What did the individual do that merits the award? Why was this outstanding when compared to others of like grade and experience in similar positions or circumstances? If appropriate, include production records and assistance rendered by other persons or units. What obstacles were encountered or overcome? Indicate results of achievement, service, or performance. Include reference to Fitness Reports, Letters of Commendation, or other documentation already on file which supports this recommendation.

From early December 1965 through May 1966, Messrs. James W. McCord,
Jr., Alan F. Petit, and William M. Marcy, of the Technical Division,
Office of Security, spent many off-duty hours in experimentation with
various items of equipment in an effort to improve and strengthen the
Agency's Audio-cntermeasures Program. They conceived and developed
a unique techr in fluoroscopic scanning which is considered to be
a major breakthrough in the detection of clandestine microphones and
other devices targeted against the Agency. It gives the Agency for
the first time the capability to detect hidden technical listening de-
vices a capability for which the intelligence community has expended
large sums of money to develop in a variety of approaches. This tech--
nique will not only benefit the security of all Agency installations
at home and abroad, but will be of utmost benefit to other agencies
in the community. This technique was met with wide acclaim by the
intelligence community and the Technical Security Countermeasures
Committee.

In experimenting with the X-ray in combination with a fluoroscopic
screen, these men showed this combination had distinct advantages in
terms of time and effort over the considerably more expensive X-ray
film and processor. In further refinement of this technique, they
designed an innovation in the form of a fluoroscopic cloth which has
the distinct advantage of flexibility over the fluorescent screens
currently available on the commercial market.
CONTINUED ON ATTACHED SHEET
41. ENCLOSURES (List individually) If orginator is not an eyewitness or does not have personal knowledge of the act or performance,
attach affidavits of eyewitness or individuals having personal knowledge of the facts.
1. PROPOSED CITATION

42. RECOMMENDATION INITIATED BY
43. TITLE AND SIGNATURE OF OFFICIAL MAKING
RECOMMENDATION
44. DATE
Ermal P. Geiss
Deputy Director of Security
7/28/66

Recommendation Forwarded Through Officials Concerned For Their Information
45.
Head of
Career Service

Acting Director of Security
7/29/66
46.
TITLE AND SIGNATURE
DATE
Deputy Director of Operating Component

47.
TITLE AND SIGNATURE
DATE
Deputy Director of Career Service
Deputy Director for Support
3 AUG 1965

SECRET

Fection D Continued
James W. McCord, Jr.

To further enhance the use of this equipment, these
nen developed an inconspicuous, easily transportable package,
consisting of two attache cases which hold the x-ray fluoro-
scopic equipment, wall racks, and motor units. This makes it
possible for an audio-countermeasures team to enter offices,
residences, and safehouses without undue attention.

These men have shown great ingenuity and resourcefulness
in the application and development of this audio-countermeasure.
technique. Through their further efforts in package design they
contributed significantly to the future clandestine use of this
technique on a world-wide basis. This technique provides the
Agency for the first time a procedure through which large in-
terior wall surfaces, room furnishings, and objects can be
rapidly scanned in "real time" in the search for hostile tech-
nical penetrations. This capability will significantly enhance
the security of all Agency installations.
