104-10260-10400 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET/BAT
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO.
EAH-4-5353

TO
Chief, KF10T
INFO
Chief, WIIN

FROM
Chief of Station, Habana
SUBJECT
Operational
Transmittal of Blank Documentatia
HEADQUARTERS FILE NO
ONE ONE

31 July 59
F: 43-3 (CHECK X ONE)
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED
BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

ACTION REQUIRED
None.

REFERENCES:
DIK-36520 (THAT)

1. Transmitted herewith as attachment No. 1 for KIRIOT are the following
blank documents which are not used or required for the State in Habana E/B
Operation referred to in referenced cable. The KIRIOT Document Specialist
requested that the documents be returned to Headquarters.
31
a. City of Newark, New Jersey Birth Certificate
b. New York driver's License (instruction sheet).
c. National Geographic Travel-Lite Series blank Identity Card.
d. The Flamingo Hotel identity Card.
e. A blank Social Security card.

2. The following is also transmitted herewith as attachment No. 2:
31
a. Cachet of the Department of Labor of the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico with ink pad.

b. Assorted cellophane sheets used for lamination.

Stanley R. Zanka

Attachments:
2 envelopes.

Distribution:
3- KURIOT w/atts.w
(1- C/MD w/o atts.
2- Files

29 July 59
SHZXcbd

FORM
1 DEC 53
USE PREVIOUS EDITION
REPLACES FORMS
51-24, 51-28A AND 51-288
WHICH ARE OBSOLETE

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET/BAT

CONTINUED
EAH-4-5353

PAGE NO.
1
