104-10192-10110
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FBI
29 Dec.67 Miami
Re: MOC
Confidentine

14-00000
0ז
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
MICROFILIO

Chief, WH Division.
INFO.
fre
SUBJECT
Chief of Station, JUWAVE
AKULE/MHSPARN AMMOP
C
Plans for ODCA Mid-April Congress
ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES
REF: JMWAVE 0180
X
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDI KING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM
15

1. The purpose of this dispatch is to report the comments
of AMMOP-1 on 30 November regarding the forthcoming Organizacion
Democrata Cristiana de America (ODCA). Congress. AMMOP-1 said
that the precise date of the Congress is yet to be set though
it is still scheduled for mid-April.
He now feels that he will
While
have a copy of the formal agenda by the end of December which
is a full month earlier than reported in the reference.
AMMOP-1 is not a member of the committee preparing the agenda,
he said that he is being kept generally informed of developments
and that once the agenda is prepared he should be in a position
to influence a revision of the agenda in the event that there
are no items concerning Cuba or that the items listed are not
satisfactory. He said that the principal person with whom he
is in contact on this matter is Rafael CALDERA and that it
will be through CALDERA that he would hope to make his influence
felt. AMMOP-1- also said that he has been assured by CALDERA
that the Cuban case will be prominent in the agenda.

2. We will continue to keep Headquarters informed of
developments on this end.

Distribution:
23
WH/COG

Rodi Micha
Roger E. MARCHBANE

14-306-10
CA
COPY
DEC:
CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
DATE
3-
201-767219
UFGA-29068
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
1957
Enter
1.December 1967
HOS FILE NUMBER
19-300-10

20 Que. 67 Mini
Re: noc
Confidentine

14-00000

:
FBI:
30 Aug. 67
Meani
Re: тос no class.

5 Jure ? Meani
Re moe
Confidextere

14-00000
CLON/COG
PROCESSING ACTION
10
AFO.
FROM
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
Chiefs, All Mi Stations and Bases

Chief, Wil Division
SUBJECT
Christian Democracy in Latin America
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
ACTION REQUIRED: None, FYI.
X
QUIRED
ONLY QULIFE DESA
CAN AIDGE INTE
MICROFILM

The following analysis has been prepared in Wil Division and
is transmitted to all Mi Division Stations and Bases as a review
of the current status of Christian Democracy in Latin America and
an updating of Headquarters' view on the movement. We believe
the subject matter merits close and careful study by all Station
operations and reports officers whose comments are solicited.
FYI, this material, in a shorter and sanitized form was published
in the 3 March issue of the Current Intelligence Weekly Review,
and will thus be widely disseminated throughout the intelligence
community. However, the WOGEAR study could not includo much of
the "Conclusions" section since it was interpretative and had
operational overtones. Thus we've decided to send the full text
herein in book dispatch form.

1. The decisive victory of Eduardo Frei in the September 1964
Chilean Presidential election led many to hope that Christian
Democracy might develop significantly throughout Latin America
competing with Communism on ideological grounds and offering an
alternative, democratic route to social and economic progress.
Christian Democracy's advocacy of "Third Force" concepts plus
frequent manifestations of anti-Yankee syndrome caused some
observers to swallow hard, but there was no denying that these
concepts had an emotional appeal. This political charisma,
coupled with a commitment to, basic social reform and opposition to
Communism, and presented within an ideological framework stressing
the dignity of the human person, comprised a package of considerable
attractiveness to the Latin American, particularly the student and
middle class clements. This dispatch will review the current status
of the CD parties and the role of organizations -- ODCA, CLASC,
Party youth and student wings and European CD groups -- which
CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL: AND NUMBER
DATE
BOOK DISPATCH 5951
OFFICE
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
a
(2)
MOS FILE NUMBER
Eactuced trea
21:
CORGINATING
EXT.
WH/CA/ Joseph Di Stefano gb (8) March 1967) 5006
OFFICE SYMBOL-
WH/1
WH/2
WH/3.
WH/4
WH/5
/6
WH/7
OFFICE SYMBOL
C/WHD
DATE
1401
CATE
COORDINATING
OFFICER'S NAME
(in draft)
in draft
(in draft)
(in draft
(in draft)
(in draft)
(In draft)
RELEASING
OFFICER'S SIGNATURE
William V. Brocc
TDISPATCH

14-00000
CC...TUATION OF
DISPATCH
SECRET
SIMOOL AND NUDLA
DOOR DISPAТСИ 5961
represent key factors in the development of the Christian Democratic
movement in Latin America. Our major purpose is to determine, some
two years after the Frei victory, whether the generally enthusiastic
assessment of Christian Democratic prospects engendered by this
highly significant election was justified.

I- CURRENT BALANCE SHEET OF CHRISTIAN DEMOCRACY

2. Parties of Current Significance. Christian Democratic
parties are generally agreed to be of current political significance
in only four Latin American countries -- Chile, Venezuela, El
Salvador and Peru.

a. The Chilean PDC is the only party with the respon-
sibility of governing; the solid victory of Frei in the 1964
presidential election was followed by an even more impressive
showing in the March 1965 congressional election. However, the
Party's reform program is being implemented with less than
deliberate speed, no progress has been made in weakening
Marxist leadership domination of the urban labor force, and
indications are that Frei's moderation will be increasingly
challenged by the left wing of the PDC.
:

b. The COPEI Party of Venezuela has strong hopes of
duplicating the victory of the Chilean Party in 1968 and
appears to have narrowed the gap between itself (22 percent
of the clectorate in 1963) and the governing Accion Democratica
Party (32 percent). COPEI Secretary General Rafael Caldera,
one of the few Latin American CD leaders of international
stature, is expected to be the Party's standard bearer in his
fourth try for the presidency.

c. In El Salvador, the PDC garnered 29 percent of the
votes in the March 1966 legislative election and one of its
leaders, Jose Napoleon Duarte, retained the mayoralty of San
Salvador. In less than six years the PDC has become the
leading opposition party. It has little chance of capturing
the presidency in 1967, but should be a strong contender by
1972, with Notre Dame-educated Mayor Duarte the likely
candidate.

d. The Peruvian PDC formed a coalition with the Popular
Actica (AP) Party in 1963; it currently holds two cabinet
positions. Some would argue that the Peruvian CD (with only
4 percent of the votes in 1963) has no real future in compe-
tition with the dominant AP and the long-established APRA,
both reformist parties, and thus should not be included in a
listing of significant CD parties. Some weight is added to
this argument by the very recent split off of a dissident
faction of the PDC into a separate party. However, the
inclusion of the Peruvian party here is based primarily on the
fact that it is the only CD group participating in a coalition
government and thus contributes an element of stability to the
political scene in Peru.
FORM
364
53 a
USE PREVIOUS EDITION
!
CLASSIFICATION
PAGE NO
SECRET
XCONTINUE
2

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
CLASS FICATION
SECRET
BOCK DISPATCH 5961
3. Parties of Moderate Potential. Applying even the most
generous criteria to the judgement of potential, there are not
more than four CD parties -- in the Dominican Republic, Panama,
Brazil and Guatemala -- that might develop as moderately important
forces over the next five years.

s. The Dominican PRSC stands as a prime example of
CD irresponsibility from the time Caonabo Javier took over
Party leadership in the wake of the Dominican Revolution in
April 1965. It has collaborated with the entire spectrum of
Marxist-lining parties, and moderation of its extreme
cilitancy in the near future appears unlikely. The PRSC has
developed a small but talented cadre of leadership, primarily
from the university ranks, and is buttressed by the strongest
CLASC affiliate (CASC) in the Hemisphere.

b. The Panamanian PDC was registered some five years
ago and polled only 3.1 percent of the votes in 1964. Although
it continues a miniscule party, it has made significant
organizational strides and its philosophy of social justice
gives it roots lacking by most Panamanian parties, which are
largely personalistic or tied to financial interests. If the
Panama CD succeeds in expanding its middle-class base and
attracts militants from the predominantly negro and mestizo
population, it could become a force of some importance.

c. While the Brazilian PDC polled a mere 4 percent of
the vote in 1964, the Party has significant strength in three
ey states of the Center-South (Parana, Sao Paulo, and
Guanabara). Like all other pre-Castello Branco political
parties, the PDC was unable to campaign under its own banner
in the presidential and parliamentary elections of late 1966.
Expanded political activity will probably be permitted after
the seating of President Costa e Silva in March 1967, but it
is expected that the number of legally recognized political
parties will be limited. It appears likely that the PDC will
have to merge with another party if it is to compete in the
legislative life of the country. If the. PDC joins with a
party that has strength outside the present PDC strongholds,
and the PDC message and mystique sets the tone for such a new
political entity, the net result could be expanded importance
for Christian Democracy in Brazil.

d. The Guatemalan PDC was only recently recognized as
a legally constituted party. This nascent group has good
strength in the youth and student movement and growth
potential in the important campesino sector. Current direction
of the party leaves much to be desired; PDC leader Rene de
Leon appears honest and intelligent but he has little organ-
izational flair or charisma. His leadership is being challenged
by a group of militant "Young Turks" on the left. With more
vigorous leadership and the development of middle echelon
cadres the party could develop significantly.

4. Parties of Insignificance. The remaining nine Christian
Democratic parties -- in Argentina, Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica,
Ecuador, Mexico, Nicaragua, Paraguay and Uruguay -- show scant
promise of developing into forces of national importance over the
next five years. Leadership of even modest stature exists only
in Argentins (Salvador Allende, Horacio Sualdo) and Bolivia
FORM
80.4
53a
USE PREVIOUS EDITION,
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
女
PAGE NO
د

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
VUGIL AND N
BOOK DISPATCH 5961
(Reme 1 Katale). These parties appear doomed to the role of
bridesmaids to the handful of parties that really count.

II -PARTY YOUTH WINGS

5. CD Strength in Universities Ahead of Party Strength. As
with all political groups in Latin America, the vast majority of
CD party militants are drawn from the ranks of student appendages
active in the local universitics. In most countries of the hemi-
sphere, CD voting strength on the campus is much more significant
thần the political strength of the parent party. A few examples.
illustrate this point: In Panama, the Party polled 3.1 percent
of the vote in 1964 (and probably would poll not more than 5
percent today), while its University youth got 12.8 percent in the
January 1966 election. The Dominican PRSC received 5.4 percent of
the vote in 1962 (and its present strength could well be lower
because of internal divisions and leadership conflicts), but its
youth wing on the campus garnered 40.2 percent of the vote in
May 1966. In Venezuela, COPEI polled 22 percent of the vote in
1953; its student wing on the campus of the Central University,
however, polled 40.2 percent of the vote in 1966. These comparitive
figures suggest some conclusions which are presented in Paras. 19
and 20 below.

6. Radicalization of Youth Wings. Several CD leaders, most
notably Frei and Caldera, have expressed considerable concern over
the growing radicalization of party youth wings. That youth groups
of every political stripe assume positions to the left of their
parties is nothing new, but the situation in several CD groups has
gotten badly out of hand. In several countries only an opaque line
divides the positions assumed by CD youth groups (or important wings)
from the stance assumed by Marxist youth elements. In Venezuela,
the wing of the COPEI youth headed by Marta Sosa is so "far-out"
it has carned the sobriquet "the Astronauts." Chilean President
Frei reportedly told a German Christian Democrat that his youth
wing is in danger of becoming Marxist. In Panama, the dominant
wing of the CD youth has assumed positions at least as radical as
the Communists. And in the Dominican Republic the Social Christian
group in the National University is allied with the Communist
students.
:

7. Youth Tending to Push Parties Further Left. The great
concern of responsible party leaders is that youth input to the
parties will swell the ranks of the radical wings and push the
parties further left. Some observers believe that the CD youth
problem has been exaggerated and that the "hot heads" will mellow
once they participate directly in party life and cope with hard
political reality. While this is partially true, we would take
issue with this relaxed view. The raw material to be molded is
far different than it was ten years ago; since that time the demand
for revolutionary (even convulsive) change has mushroomed -- ard
among the youth the cry has assumed din proportions. The natural
mellowing process will no longer produce the same magic.

S. Need for Training. Some believe that the only way of
arresting the CD youth drift to the left in the foreseeable future
lies in massive and intensive youth and political cadre training.
Efforts in this direction to date (at IFEDEC, several national
political training institutes, ORMEU and various student training
FORM
530
ust reeviouS CONTION;
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
PAGE NO
4

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
CLASSINATION
SECRET
BOOK DISPATCH 5961
courses) have been discouraging. In most instances the teachers
share identical biases with the students with the result that
misconceptions are reinforced and no new horizons are opened up.
Frei and Caldera have asked the German Institute for International
Solidarity to increase its support in the student training field,
but the Germans, while recognizing the serious need, have thus far
declined to increase their commitment. To accomplish anything
significant, the Germans believe a massive program wast be launched
(which would tax their current resources), and they wonder whether
tho CD youth situation has been permitted to drift too long to
salvage.
:

III - THE IMPACT OF CLASC ON THE CHRISTIAN DE:OCRATIC MOVEMENT

9. CLASC Poses Sericus Danger for CD Movement. A KUMONK
study points out that "Organized labor could contribute substantially
to the development of well-organized CD political parties in the.
hemisphere, but it also offers the best chance for CD extremists
to cause harm to the movement." Few would argue that how the CD
movement fares and the image it projects depend in not insignificant
measure on the posture assumed and progress achieved by CLASC.
More often than not, the judgement of a mass movement is based on
the worst element comprising it -- and in this regard CLASC is
challenged only by the party youth and student wings. As an
organized labor force CLASC has been a dismal failure (with the
exception of its campesino arm); its only impact and sole raison
d'etre up to this time has been as a political action instrument
with primary appeal to the working classes. It is unlikely that
CLASC, under Maspero leadership, will mellow as do parties when
they achieve the responsibility of government.

10. CLASC Has Maintained Posture of Independence. Despite its
"Christian" label, CLASC has consistently maintained that it is not
subservient to the Christian Democratic movement or any member
party. The statement cannot be disputed, for while CLASC is guilty
of most of the same aberrations as the least responsible of the CD
parties, it invariably comits its follies independently, (often,
in fact, setting an example that is cmulated by the parties). But
while CLASC can defend its claim of independence, it is also true
that CLASC does not discourage the belief that it is the chosen
labor instrument of the Christian Democratic movement, although
this label has never been formally bestowed.
:

11. Closer Ties Between CLASC and CD Movement Appear Likely.
It appears likely that a more organic participation of CLASC in CD
affairs is in the offing. A Seminar was held in Montevideo from
11-23 April (sponsored by the Christian Democratic Formation
Institute -- IFEDEC) for officials of CLASC who are also officers
of Christian Democratic parties. The Seminar, called for the
specific purpose of arranging closer coordination between the CD
political movement and the Christian labor movement, resulted in
the signing of the "Carta de Montevideo" on 20 April. The Act
calls for formal representation of ODCA in both the Christian
labor organization and CD party labor departments. To this end,
a Coordinating Comittee was formed -- the Comite Relacionador Y
Coordinador De Organizaciones Laborales y Funcionales De Los
Partidos Democrata Cristianos. The Act appeals to the CD parties
:
FONM
53 a
USEMEVIOUS EDITION,
CLASSIFICATION
PAGE NO
SECRET
x
3

14-00000
FORM
8-C4
1401
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
SECRET
BOOK DISPATCH 5961
to request ODCA approval of the creation of this Coordinating
Committee and ODCA recognition of CLASC as its chosen haaispheric
labor instrument. The eventual approval of the ODCA leadership
appears likely; indeed, it is doubtful that the Act would have
emerged from the Montevideo Seminar if informal agreement of the
OFCA leadership had not been obtained in advance.

12. Negative CLASC Influence on Perty Youth Wings. Closer
CLASC identification with the CD political movement will likely
rub off negatively on the CD youth wings which invariably are further
left than their parent parties and identify much more closely with
the revolutionary image and mystique CLASC has som and propagated.
It is perhaps significant that CLASC has intensified its efforts
since January to establish youth appendages to the Christian labor
movement. This initiativa appears to have made greatest-progress
in Central America.

IV- THE ROLE OF ODCA

13. ODCA Contributes Little Positive Direction. The Latin
American CD partics formed their regional organization in
Montevideo in 1949 -- the Organizacion Democrata Cristiana de
America (ODCA). The current officers of ODCA are:

President
Vice President
Vice President
:
Rafael Caldera, Venezuela
: Hector CORNEJO Chavez, Peru
:
Rene DE LEON Schlotter, Guatemala
Secretary General: Tomas REYES Vicuna, Chile

ODCA has consistently assumed an anti-Yankee posture on a broad
range of key issues (most forcefully on the American intervention
in the Dominican Republic) out on balance has been less strident
in its criticism than several of its member parties (notably the
Chilean, Bolivian and Dominican CD's), probably because of
Caldera's restraining hand. The Organization would merit much
closer attention than we have given it to date if it had substantial
influence on or authority over member parties, or could apply
sanctions against national groups. But ODCA amounts to little
more than a fraternity. Its member parties have little ideological
homogencity and the cement of their union appears to be based more
on revolutionary mysticism (which most parties are careful to
qualify with adjectives like peaceful, democratic and Christian)
and m negative factors (hostility to the U.S., capitalism and the
oligarchies), than on a foundation of CD doctrine or basic agree-
ment on just what they want.

14. Efforts to Firm Up the ODCA Role. We have asked contacts
in European CD circles to prod ODCA to set criteria for membership
and behavior and that the Europeans weigh petitions for support
from the Latin American parties and organizations against these
criteria. DYVOUR officers have argued that while the Europeans
cannot realistically require nascent and ill-trained CD groups in
Latin America to hold to the same rigid standards of political
morality that have evolved in Europe, neither should the Europeans
CLASSIFICATION
X
53 a
USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
SECR
PAGE NO
6

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH,
SECRET
يال
BOOK STSPATCH 5961
continue to tolerate and thus abet the irresponsibility of the
Latin CO parties because there are no standards at ail. ODCA
leader Caldera appears to recognize the need för sleast some
basic ideological common ground among ODCA-member parties. But
no signal success has been achieved in this direction to date
and we are not at all sanguine that even modest progress will be
made in this regard in the foreseeable future. Reporting on the
Congress of the World Christian Democratic Union (CDU) held in
Lima in April 1966 indicates clearly that the Latin American
parties will not submit without combat to any effort (whether
initiated by the European financial backers of the CD movement
or by ODCA) that aims at imposing standards and controls that
will impinge on their complete freedom of action.

15. Formation of Central American Regional Grouping. The
Central American CD parties act in El Salvador in July 1966 to
establish a smaller regional grouping, The Union Democrata Cristiana
de Centroamerica (UDCCA). This action does not appear to reflect
any element of pique with ODCA (the relations of COPEI and Rafael
Caldera with the Central American parties appear close and cordial)
but rather a desire to establish a smaller and more cohesive unit
that can better address itself to the problems common to the
area and, to a lesser extent, to the individual CD parties. UDCCA
is comprised of five parties (in Guatemala, El Salvador, Nicaragua,
Costa Rica and Panama), with the possibility that a sixth party
will be formed in Honduras.

V EUROPEAN CD ROLE AND INFLUENCE

16. The European Christian Democratic Union (ECDU). The
European CD parties were first to establish a regional organization,
the Nouvelle Equipe Internationales (EI) in 1947. The NEI never
played a major role in world Christian Democratic affairs. From
the outset the Latin American parties maintained their closest
ties with individual leaders of the CD movement in Europe, particu-
larly those involved in financial operations with the sister parties
and CLASC in Latin America. The NEI became progressively less
significant and in recent years was virtually moribund. But in
mid-1965 the organization was revamped and re-christened as the
European Christian Democratic Union (ECDU). Its newly elected
President, Mariano Rumor, Secretary General of the Italian PDC,
appears intent on making the ECDU a strong organization which will
at least match the Socialist International in stature.

17. European Financial Support to the CD Parties. The two CD
organizations which have contributed most heavily to the support
of the Latin American CD parties and related organizations are the
Institute for International Solidarity (IIS) and the International
Solidarity Foundation (FIS). Between them they will contribute
an estimated $800,000 to $1,000,000 to the CD parties and CLASC in
Calendar Year 1967. It was recently reported that the COPEI party
of Venezuela will receive $450,000 for the 1968 election from FIS
at the rate of $160,000 per year commencing in 1966.
3.
The IIS. The Institute for International Solidarity,
headed until recently by Dr. Peter Molt (the new Director is
Adolf Herkenrath), is an arm of the Konrad Adenauer Foundation
of the German Christian Democratic Union (CDU). Like its
530
USE PALVIOUS FOITION,
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
Xcontaneo
PAGE NO
7

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
CLASSICATION
SECRET
DOCK361
Social Fouadracie counterpart (che Friedrich Ebert Foundation),
the bulk of IS's operating budget comes from the German
Government. IIS maintains several permane.it representatives
in Latin America aid supports several CD activities directly.
But it also contributes more than fifty percent of the FIS
budget.

home International Solidarity Fund was
formally created on 30 March 1964 to avoid duplication of
Financial support efforts on the part of the European CD
parties and other CD-oriented groups in Latin America. The
name was later changed to the International Solidarity
Foundation (FIS) to avoid confusion with the solidarity fund
of CISC and other organizations. The FIS operates as an arm
of the ECDU, with headquarters in Rome. Its most important
leaders are: Dr. Johannes Schauff (President of the FIS, a
German national and close personal friend of Konrad Adenauer),
Mariano Rumor, Adolf Herkenrath and August Vanistendael
(Sceretary General of the International Federation of
Christian Trade Unions -- CISC).

18. Difference in Function of IIS and FIS. From the start
of its activities, the Germans and Italions have contributed
almost the entire FIS budget (in 1964, for example, Vanistendael
contributed only $15,000 from the CISC International Solidarity
Fund). FIS appears to be the exclusive European CD channel for
örganizational support to the Latin American CD parties. While
the IIS is the rich partner in the IIS-FIS tandem and could easily
fund the Latin American parties directly, the FIS channel is
preferred by the Germans and has two major advantages: First,
since FIS is a regional solidarity instrument with representation
(but not contributions) from all the European parties, the
responsibility for support to certain controversial Latin parties
is watered down and distributed among the European CD's collectively.
Thus a Latin American government or party in competition with the
local CD's cannot easily make a formal demarche to the IIS or the
German government. Second, it is easier to obfuscate the magnitude
of European organizational support to the Christian Democratic
movement in Latin America if it is channeled through a multi-party
organization. The Germans have limited IIS funding to less
controversial areas support to youth and student formation,
political training institutes and CLASC training institutes.
(See Attachment A for a detailed flow chart.)

CONCLUSIONS

19. CD's Challenge Communist Domination of the University.
It was noted in Para. Sabove that almost without exception CD
strength in the university greatly exceeds the voting strength of
the parent party. The same is true of the Communists, and it is
a fact that Communist/Christian Democratic strength on the campus
is overwhelmingly dominant throughout the hemisphere. Few would
take issue with the conclusion that the vast majority of university
youth are attracted to movements projecting an inspirational
message (the word "inspirational" more accurately characterizes
the CD movement than does "ideological") or an aura of revolutionary
mystique. During the past few years Communist voting losses in
the university have been picked up mainly by the Christian Democrats
the vote has shifted from one movement with a message to another.
It would appear that the Christian Democrats are the only political
group capable of challenging the Communists' hemisphoric domination
of the campus.
--
FORM
6-04 530
USE PREVIOUS EDITION
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
X
CONTINUCO
PAGE NO
8

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
SECRET.
BOOK DISPATCH 5961
20. CO Strength in University to Indicator of Co Party
Strength of Potential, Fras the foregoing, however, it does
not follow that the growth of Co strength in the university
presages a corresponding increase in CD party strength. While
voting patterns in the university provide valuable fasights on
population (particularly youth) attitudeo and aspirations, these
patterns are not a reliable barometer of either organized party
strength or future potential. in no country of Latin America
is the voting strength of the 's or the Communists nearly as
strong cong the population at large as it is on the campus.
Ona reason is that the university population of Latin America is
less than 2 percent of the total population. The CD campus leader
almost invariably graduates from student politics to more direct
party involvement when he leaves the university -- even if the
party has no discernable future. It would appear, however, that
the non-university youth (lecking the pseudo-intellectual pre-
tensions and the self-bestowed elite label of the university-
trained) are much less inclined to vote and militate for Christian
Democracy simply because it has emotional or inspirational appeal.

21. CD Failure to Transform Affinity of Lower Classes Into
Votes. The inadequately educated and the lower social classes in
Latin America are inevitably motivated by the pragmatism of the
possible; to vote for a party that has limited potential to achieve
national power, simply because it espouses views that hit responsive
chords, is a luxury ho believes ha cannot afford. Better, he
thinks, to vote for the least objectionable of the traditional
parties. Christian Democracy remains basically a middle-class
mover With fow exceptions (Chile, the Dominican Republic and
to a lesser extent Venezuela) it has scant worker or campesino
appeal. By and large, Christian Democracy has failed to reach
those on the lower rungs of the social ladder.

22. Individual Party Fortumes Appear Unaffected by CD
Progress Elsewhere. Many expected, or at least hoped, that the
Frei victory in Chile would give impetus to the development of
the CD movement throughout the hemisphere. This has not happened.
There is no evidence that individual CD parties were either assisted
or hindered in their development by the Chilean success story. And
yet the view persists that the Chilean victory was a boon to the
movement's potential and progress. During the past year COPEI
leader Rafuel Caldera has broadcast a variation on this theme that
several European CD leaders have taken up. They argue that COPEI
must emerge victorious in the 1953 election if the CD movement is
to maintain its momentum, for sa ideologically based movement
cannot avoid peaking off, and gradually down, if it has only one
significant victory to cite over a period of several years. We
would reject the view -- based on election results in Argentina,
Colombia, El Salvador, the Dominican Republic and Uruguay -- that
individual party fortunes will be affected in any significant
measure by the successes or failures of sister parties elsewhere.
What appears to emerge from these elections is rather solid
evidence that the national parties will sink or swim on their
own devices, based largely on leadership abilities, the development
of micile echelon cadres, organizational talents, appeal to the
"socially disinherited," and the pragmatism of local issues and
considerations. International events (with rare exception) count
for little, and the influence of ODCA and the successful CD parties
even less.
FORM
864
530
USC PALVIOUS EDITION,
CLASSIFICATION
PAGE NO
SECRET
Xrisim
9

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
CATION
BOOK DISPATCH 5961
SECRET
23. Growth Potential Exists, But Much Less Than Originally
Anticipated. The CD movement has made only modest progress the
past two years. Indications are that the development of the
movement will be much slower and less extensive than many anti-
cipated in the first flush of enthusiasm following the Frei
victory, for it has many problems to resolve. Chief among these,
perhaps, 1s CD failure to reach the lower social classes and to
develop a significant worker base. The chances of CLASC contri-
buting positively to correct this failure appear remote. Another
major problem is the absence of an ideological commonnground,
despite the lip service paid to the Papal Encyclicals and the
Catholic social philosophers, and the failure to enunciate minimum
behavioral standards that these philosophical root's would impose.
This deficiency is the root cause of two manifestations: First,
a propensity to consort with Communist and assorted Marxist groups
(c.g., in Colombia, Bolivia, the Dominican Republic and Panama).
Second, the progressive radicalization of party youth wings which
threatens to push the parent parties further left. The fact,
remains, nevertheless, that Christian Democracy is the most unified
non-Communist movement in Latin America. It cannot be labeled
democratic or anti-Communist because of the behavioral aberrations
of several national parties.
:

24. Need for Eclectic Operational Approach to CD's. The
ranks of those who viewed Christian Democratic prospects with
great enthusiasm two years ago including the European financial
backers of the movement -- have dwindled considerably. But those
who have been critics of Christian Democracy from the outset (many
of whom might be described as the "visceral denigrators") have
displayed no more perception in evaluating CD prospects. The
head-in-the-sand generalization that Christian Democracy has no
future does not stand the challege of investigation. Neither does
the assertion that Christian Democracy is the hemispheric wave of
the future. The only valid generalization that might be made on
CD prospects is that all generalizations are false. We would
submit that the only valid approach to the CD phenomenon is to assess
the movement and make operational judgements on a country-by-
country basis. There are some countries where the collapse of
the party would be no loss. The key question is: Can the party
develop as a positive element in national political stability?
If so, it is incumbent on the Station to develop assets within
the party and to examine the need for operational involvement.
Station posture toward the CD movement must be based on the raw
realities of the local situation, case by case.

RUTHERFORD J. LYNER
CLASSIFICATION
MGENO
533
USE PREVIOUS (DITION.
SECRET
LXJCONTINUED
10

14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
CLASSICAMON
SECRET
ATCH SIMOOL AND NUMBEA
ECOX DISPATCH. 5961
File Distribution:
(1 copy each)
Duenos Aires
La Paz
Rio de Janeiro
Belo Horizonte
Bresilia
Porto Alegre
Recife
Sco Paulo
:
Santiago, Chile
Bogota
Georgetown
San José
Santo Domingo
Quito
Guayaquil
Sen Selvador
Guatemala City
Port au Prince
Tegucigalpa
Kingston
Mexico City
Honterrey
JESTAVE
Fanoma City
Asuncion
Lima
Paramaribo
Port of Spain
Montevideo
Caracas
Santiago de los Caballeros
Managua
Ros Distribution:
(1 copy each)
Wi/Branch Chiefs
W/Country Desks
MI/ΕΧΟ
C//