2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

To Chief, Task Force W

FROM Chief of Station, JMWAVE

CLASSIFICATION SECRET

PROCESSING: X MARKED FOR INDEXING

Operational/GYROSLEZ/AMCUTLEF

AMCUTLER-1 Progress Report for November and December 1962.

Action Required: For your information.

Reference: UFCA-6637, dated 23 November 1962.

Developments:

1. AMCUTLEF-1’s efforts during the reporting period were directed toward: (a) supporting the AMTAUNA operation; and (b) developing new KUTUBE operations.

2. In support of the AMFAUNA operation, he has been investigating AMFAUNA-4, for which purpose he has interviewed seven Masons in Miami who presumably should have known AMFAUNA-4 but did not, and two individuals in New York who did know him. (See UFCA-7118.)

3. AMCUTLER-1 has also reported a potential courier channel to AMTAUNA-1, using:

Gonzalo ARELEM Martin
Brazilian citizen
Born ca 1915
Residence N.E. Biscayne Blvd, Miami, Fla.
Occupation: Employee of Brazilian Consulate

and his brother

Manuel ARELEM Martin
Brazilian citizen
Born ca 1909
Residence? Havana, Cuba
Occupation: Officer of Brazilian Embassy, Havana

Once a month a pouch passes between the Brazilian Consulate in Miami and the Embassy in Havana, and AMCUTLER-1 has made use of it to send letters for posting in Havana to AMCUTLER-2. The two ARELEM brothers are personal friends of AMCUTLER-1 and AMCUTLER-2 but AMCUTLER-1 does not

(Continued)

Distribution: Headquarters

CLASSIFICATION SECRET

DATE TYPED 9 Jan. 63

DATE DESPATCHED JAN. 13

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER UFGA-7171

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

19-6-74/3

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
# 09593

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION SECRET

UFGA-7171

believe that they would yet be willing to carry or send any obvious espionage material. He does believe that they would be willing to carry canned good to AMCUTLER-2, and this is being explored, with the idea of concealing, money, maps, etc. in the tin cans.

4. For the purpose of trying to develop new KUTUBE operations, AMCUTLER-1 has been following up leads given him by his case officer, He has interviewed

Carlos Manuel CACERES-Blay
Former manager Motel Las Cuevas, Trinidad
Residence 1122 S.W. 16th Ave. Miami, Fla.

from whom he obtained two intelligence reports; and

Evelio CRUZ
Born Candelaria Cuba
Residence 1545 S.W. 6th St., Apt. 4. Miami, Fla.

from whom he obtained operational information on the Esquivel Caves, Soroa Zone, termino municipal of Candelaria, Pinar del Rio. CRUZS passed AMCUTLER-1 to

Luis HERNANDEZ aka "El Ferrible"
Residence 665 N.E. 24th St., Apt. 8, Miami, Fla.

who gave additional information on the caves which, he said, are the property of his brother-in-law

Dioninio PUGARTE

Sixtor PUGARTET

Anita PERRASTE Betancourt. A CANDELARIA, PINAR
Idel Rio, Cuba

who still lives in the area.

5. AMCUTLER-1 reported that his friend "Pepe" GONZALEZ, whose brother-in-law now resident in Spain is a son of

(Dr) Carlos PEDEMONTE
Head of Cartographic Office of INRA
has received word that PEDEMONTE is looking for a way to leave Cuba.
AMCUTLER-1 is trying to develop additional information on PEDEMONTE's situation from GONZALEZ Other than press clippings, the only JMWAVE trace on PEDEMONTE is contained in HKH-02664 of 15 April 1960.

6. On 22 December 1962 AMCUTLER-1 reported that he had been invited by one

"Chique" MONTES
Cuban citizen
Resident Puerto Rico
1 JAN. 63

to join a maritime expedition aimed against tanker traffic on the south coast of Cuba, with the further objective of seizing a Cuban frigate with the cooperation of its captain. Details were sent to Headquarters in WAVE-2749 of 22 December, in the hope that it might be possible to make a tentative identification of the naval officer involved.

7. On 25 December 1962 AMCUTLER-1 reported that he had been informed the day before by

Pedro Luis DIA: Lanz

that two individuals named

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION SECRET

UFGA-7171

Reinard LOPEZ Llub

Enrique CEIJAS

had just approached him with the offer to sell him some weapons allegedly belonging to KUBARK which were stored on an unidentified key and valued at several thousand dollars. LOPEZ and CEIJAS told DIAZ/that an armed raid on the key would have to be simulated so that suspicion would not fall on them, and that the raid would have to be pulled off on either the night of 25 December or 31 December when one of the other of the men would be on guard duty at the key. (DIAZ/had turned down the offer. JMWAVE file checks showed that the two men were indeed of interest to KUBARK, and that AMTABBY Underwater Demolition Team was possibly involved. Appropriate defensive measures were immediately taken.

Production:

8. The following reports were disseminated during the period:

UFG-1955 "Reaction to Current Crisis within Cuba"
UFG-2098 "Possible Military Use of Caves near Trinidad, Las Villas"
UFG-2143 "Identification of Two Caves near Trinidad, Las Villas Which Could be Used for Military Purposes"
UFGT-2823 "Passenger Manifests for Flights to & From Cuba".

Costs:

9. The following expenses were incurred during the period on behalf of the operation:

Two months' salary $500.00
Use of POV 80.00
Meeting expenses 10.22
$546.22

Future Plans

10. No change.

END OF DISPATCH
