104-10175-10152 June 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

29 March 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/CA
SUBJECT: Response to Memo on "Council for Latin
America"

The activities of WI/I touch upon four organizations
listed below. There are no other activities as they may con-
cern organizations listed on the CA memo (attached).

1. Confederación Mexicana de Cámaras Industriales.
currently budgeted at $60,000 annually, supports in part this
organization, which also receives funds (some $950,000 yearly)
from MISEREOR, a German Catholic fund with headquarters in
Aachen, Germany. The objective of this effort is to help en-
courage model or prototype Mexican organizations designed to
alleviate and hopefully to advance the social and economic
status of the Mexican campesino.

2. Instituto de Investigaciones Sociales y Económicas.
The executive director of this organization was formerly as-
sociated with the LIEF project, but he is no longer an
active member of this project which is funded at the current
rate of $4,300 annually and supports LIEF-1, the Station's
only agent with access to rightist political organizations.

3. Centro Nacional de Estudios Sociales. The director
of this organization (LISIFER-3) is no longer an active LOFT
agent. The LESIFER project was terminated in 1965 and had
been funded at an annual rate of some $165,000. The project
supported a mass media propaganda effort directed at the mid-
dle and lower classes of Mexico and sponsored by a front group
of conservative Mexican businessmen.

4. American Chamber of Commerce of Mexico. The vice
president of this organization is a current Station asset,
LEUFT-1. No money is provided from KOWACE sources to this
organization, although LIIFT-1 receives monthly $300.00.
The duties of this agent do not directly relate to his

SECRET

-2-

Cluster of Commerce responsibilities. LIIFT-1's principal
duty is to gather material on rightist political organizations.

N. J. Katten
C/WH/I

Attachment:
Memorandum

Distribution:
O & I - Addresses
cc - INDOREX Project
cc - LIIFT-1 201
cc - LISIFER-3 201
cc - WH/I/CF

SECRET
