104-10408-10316
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Declassified and Approved for Release
by the Central Intelligence Agency
Date: 2003

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III
15 November 1974

ANNEX B
THE 201 SYSTEM

Rescission: Annex B of Chapter III, CSHB 70-1-1, 27 October 1966

1. INTRODUCTION

The 201 system provides a method for identifying a person of specific in-
terest to the Operations Directorate and for controlling and filing all pertinent
information about that person. The system also provides a means for identifying
subjects of 201 files from various categories of information about them and for
producing lisits of 201 personalities according to those categories. Only a rela-
tively small number of personalities indexed are of sufficient interest to justify
opening a 201 dossier. These are normally subjects of extensive reporting and
CI investigation, prospective agents and sources, members of groups and organi-
zations of continuing target interest, or subjects on whom a volume of corre-
spondence has accumulated.

2. THE 201 SYSTEM

The principal features of the 201 system are:

a. The 201 Number: a unique number, i.e., 201-1234567, assigned to each
individual in the system to serve as identifying file number for reporting on that
individual.

b. The 201 Dossier: the official file containing the 201 opening form (Form
831) and all biographic reporting on and references to the individual, i.e., per-
sonal history, current status, and prospects.

c. The Master 201 Record: a machine record generated by the opening of
a 201 file. This record produces the master 201 reference for the Main Index and
stores the pertinent information which may later be retrieved for special listings.

d. Main Index Master 201 Reference: this reference, printed in reply to an
Index Search Request, is printed as illustrated below. When data are absent
within the record, succeeding data items or lines will be moved up and the ref-
erence consolidated.

23
SECKET

SEGKET

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

い
0002 CROIX, WILLIAM PENDLETON
SEX M DOB 12 APR 26
CIT GERM
REF AACD-12345, 20 JUN 53
201-0032671*
TYPE NAME T-
POB GERM, BERLIN S
OCC PHARMACIST
ΟΙ CODES AA XX-10
OCC CODE CHEM
SUBJECT RECENTLY ATTENDED THE SEVENTEENTH ANNUAL
CONFERENCE OF THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF CHEMISTS
AND PHARMACISTS HELO IN MUNICH, GERMANY FROM 22 THROUGH
29 ОСТОВER.
RCD DATE 53
30 NOV 70
3
Information About Subject
1. Sequence Number and Name
2. Sex and Date of Birth
3. Citizenship
4. Place of Birth
5. Occupation
6. Occupation Code
7. Text
Document Reference Data Group
8. 201 Number
7
9. Name Type Indicator
10. OI Codes
11. Record Date (year only)
12. Reference
ISG Control Information
13. Date of latest update of the record
14. STAR Index Record Number

SECRET
00833555
14

SECRE
(.
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974
7
e. Ol Code: a two letter symbol used in conjunction with the 201 per-
sonality records in the 201 system to record the association of an individual
with organizations or activities of operational interest. OI codes cover intelli-
gence and security service affiliation, whether staff or agent, or known or
suspect, as well as activities of DDO interest. There are two categories of OI
codes for use by components:

(1) general OI codes (Attachment 4)

(2) OI codes assigned to a specific component for intelligence services
or other specific organizations.

À component may request an OI code be established by submitting a mem-
orandum to the DDO/RMO through the component Records Management
Officer.

A 201 personality may be assigned two OI codes. An OI code may be assigned
when the 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831) is initiated (see
paragraph 3b below) by filling in Box 13 or a code may be assigned or added
at a later date by a Form 831 amendment.
:
The 201 system has the capability of producing machine listings of 201
personalities by Ol codes. For example, if an Ol code has been opened for the
security service of a certain country a listing may be compiled of all members
of that service.

f. 201 Machine Lists: produced from the mechanized 201 Index, based on
names or other identifying information of personalities on whom 201 dossiers
exist.

3. OPENING A 201 DOSSIER

a. General

The opening of a 201 dossier is the prerogative of an operational com-
ponent, in coordination with the Information Services Group. An opening creates
a master 201 record. Changes to the master record and the occasional closing.
of a 201 dossier are controlled jointly by the desks and ISG. 201 dossiers may be
opened on persons who meet the carding crítèria described in Chapter If of this
handbook, when there is a reasonable expectation that additional information
will be acquired and filed in such a dossier. Generally dossiers are opened on
persons about whom counterintelligence information is being reported, and per-
sons of operational interest to the Operations Directorate, specifically those
persons for whom provisional operational approvals and operational approvals
are requested (see exception below). 201 files are not to be opened on staff
employees, staff agents and most categories of contract employees. Files on

25
SECRET
1

:::
SECRET
SEC
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

persons who are only of local interest to a field station or Headquarters desk
and on whom no DDO records correspondence exists are not a part of the DDO
records system and are to be maintained by that unit. Some desks levy require-
ments on ISG for automatic 201 openings on certain categories of persons whose
names appear in incoming dispatches. These are listed in Attachment 2. 201
dossiers should be opened in the following categories:

(1) Subjects of provisional operational approval and operational ap-
proval requests. However, a file need not be opened when a POA is requested
for persons being trained for a foreign liaison service and who are of opera-
tional interest for training purposes only.

(2) Persons for whom the field requests a 201 opening.

(3) MHFIXTURE personalities: bonafide diplomats of other than
denied area countries, in close association with staff personnel.

(4) Subjects of a Personal Record Questionnaire Part I.
:
(5) Persons on whom a Main Index search reveals information in five
or more documents (see DOI 70-20).

(6) Subjects of Interagency Source Register memoranda from LSN/
ISR (opened only by IP/RMS).

b. Requesting a 201 File Opening

Headquarters desks may open a 201 file by filling out and submitting
a 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831) to the Records Main-
tenance Section (IP/RMS). Form 831 is also used to create or amend the
master 201 record and 201 machine listings and to register the assign-
ment of a cryptonym to a 201 personality. Attachment 3 consists of sample
201 Personality File Action Requests for opening and amending 201's. A field
station may request the opening of a 201 file by writing 201- in the Head-
quarters file or cross-reference box on the dispatch form and/or after the
subject's name in the body of the dispatch. A telepouch request for a 201 opening
is made by indicating 201- in the file number line. A cable request is made by
placing 201- after the term "File" on the last line of the transmission. IP/AN
will open 201 files as requested by dispatch or telepouch but it is the responsi-
bility of the desk to respond to cable requests. Field stations are notified of
201 openings through receipt of the field master 201 record.

26
SECRET

SEGRET
(
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

4. CONTENTS OF THE DOSSIER

Information about a 201 personality should be filed or cross-referenced into
his dossier. When additional information is discovered on a 201 subject through
a name trace or other process, i.e., review of predecessor documents, it must
be consolidated into his personality dossier. See DOI 70-20 for consolidation
procedures.
?
1
Material which is filed in the dossier includes but is not limited to:

a. 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831).

b. Biographic information including photographs, fingerprints, and
handwriting samples.

c. Personal Record Questionnaire Parts I and II.

d. Operational and other security approvals.

e. Name check replies, requests, clearances, and approvals.

f. Acknowledgement of pseudonym.

g. 201 personality assessments and evaluations.

h. Copy of contract and termination papers.

i. Secrecy agreement.

j. Agent Duty Status Report.

k. Training and evaluation.

1. SGSWIRL report.

m. Newspaper clippings.

n. Any information which helps provide a better understanding of the
subject and our interest in him; this may include operational reporting

5. MAINTENANCE OF 201 DOSSIERS

The 201 personality dossier contains, in document date order, papers which
have been made a part of the Central Records System as well as those which
have not. Record documents may range from newspaper or magazine articlės
on the subject to finance and other_administrative papers.
26,1
SECRET

SEGRET
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

a. Purging

Purging a 201 dossier is the responsibility of the desk officer. It requires
discrimination in recognizing operationally useful material, rather than the
simple distinction between official and unofficial papers; it will therefore take
place under the supervision of a Records Officer. Purging should be done
periodically. A 201 dossier being forwarded to Central Files for retention should
be purged. A 201 dossier should be purged of the following:

(1) Duplicate material, i.e., exact copy(s) of a document.

(2) Name trace form (Form 362) unless it has been the basis for
the opening.

(3) All abstract slips.

(4) All document restriction notices (Form 1884).

(5) The disseminated version of positive intelligence information if
a copy of the raw report is contained in the 201 file; the dissemination number
then must be transferred to the first page of the raw report.

(6) Routing slips, routing and record sheets (Form 610) and dispatch
cover sheets unless there are remarks such as coordinations or comments.

(7) Record copy documents which only repeat substantive information
contained in other documents in the file; authorization for destruction is
by the Records Officer.

(8) Top Secret documents are not to be retained in a 201 dossier
forwarded to Central Files; the document must be downgraded for retention
in the 201 dossier. To downgrade a Top Secret document, an authorized
officer in the originating office or the Records Officer having jurisdiction
over the contents of the material must possess Top Secret classification
authority. If the document cannot be downgraded the file should be retained
at the desk or the copy of the TS document should be removed, retained
in a desk TS file or forwarded to the Top Secret Control Officer, and a
cross-reference sheet (Form 867) placed in the 201 file giving the location
of the TS document.

(9) Deferred documents (see 5b(2)).

b. Maintenance Procedures

(1) All material in a 201 dossier will be filed in document date order.
In the case of document attachments which have been classified into a 201
26.2
SECRET

SECRET
(
DOHB 70-1-1.
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974
7
dossier and separated from the basic document by the assignment of a slash
number, the attachment will be filed by the date of the basic document.

(2) Deferred documents will not be filed in a 201 dossier. If they are
to be retained in the dossier they should be sent to IP/RMS for classification
into that 201.

(3) Field index cards (held by some desks) and area desk cards may
be retained in the 201 as part of a consolidation procedure. These cards
should be mounted on a full-size sheet of paper for filing in the 201..

(4) A 201 dossier previously opened on a person who becomes a staff
employee and which contains Record Copy documents will be restricted to
the ISG/DIP unless the desk retains the restriction. The dossier should be
closed if there are no Record Copy documents in it.

(5) A 201 opened in pseudonym should be consolidated into the true
name 201 if one exists or converted to the true name.

(6) Field and duplicate (shadow) 201 files no longer of active interest
should be incorporated into the official 201 after the duplicate material
has been purged by the desk officer and the remaining information classified
to that 201 by the Analysis Section (IP/AN).

(7) Any document with a predecessor organization cover sheet or an
OPC (Office of Policy Coordination) cover sheet from the Archives and
Disposition Section (IP/ARD) must be returned to IP/ARD for processing
to the 201.

(8) Desk memoranda (with or without a document source number)
containing substantive or derogatory information on the subject of the 201
should be sent to. IP/AN to be classified officially into the 201 file.
:
(9) An attachment which should be separated from its basic document
for inclusion in a-201 personality dossier will be forwarded with the basic
- document to IP/AN for processing into the 201.

(10) To retain the P&L, RYBAT, or KAPOK sensitivity of a document
remaining in a 201 dossier being retired to Central Files, place that document
in an envelope sealed with black tape (see DOI 70-17). Any RYBAT, P&L,
or KAPOK document sent to Central Files not in a black-taped envelope will
automatically be handled as desensitized. A black-taped envelope may con-
tain only one document and must be filed in chronological order within the
file. If there are numerous documents of this type the desk officer may black---
tape the entire dossier rather than individual documents (see DOI 70-10).
26.3
SECRET

(
SECRET-
(
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

Black-taped dossiers or dossiers with black-taped documents will be
handled as restricted dossiers.

(11) An. inactive 201 dossier or an inactive volume of a large 201
dossier on permanent charge should be returned to Central Files under a
Routing and Record Sheet with the notation shown below..;
UNCLASSIFIED
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
SUBJECT:
FRON
TO
1.
IP/Files
CC-52
2
1.
4
5.
7.
10
12.
12
14.
15.
CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
TRANSMITIAL OF INACTIVE 201 DOSSIERS
DATE
OFFICIES
COMMENTS best show
(For guidance see CSHB 70-1-1,
Chapter III, Annex B.)
Volume (s) of volume(s)
of 201-
Restricted Dossier
(Attach Fors 2021 to
Dossier)
Non-Restricted Dossier
For Split Charge Dossieres
All documents prior to
(date):
Larvarded to IP/Piles. All
documents after
(date)
retained at
desk.
h
ΒΙΟΕ
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
BETERNAL
USE DALY
UNCLASSIFIED
26.4
SECRET

(
SECRET
(
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

6. 201 DOSSIER CHARGES

A 201 dossier may be kept on permanent charge at the desk during any
period of active interest. If the dossier is transferred to another desk, the desk
officer who is transferring the dossier must notify Central Files of the transfer.
Central Files will then send the Notice of Transfer of Document or File Account-
ability (Form 2977) to the new action desk officer.
TO:
NAME
CONFIDENTIAL
(When gitled In)
NOTICE OF TRANSFER OF DOCUMENT OR FILE ACCOUNTABILITY
BADGE
COMPONEN?
ROOM
TUSC
EXT.
This is to notify you that accountability for the document(s) and/or file(s) cited
below has been transferred to you by:
Accordingly, IP's records nov reflect you as the custodian. Please contact IP/Files,
Ext. 4362, if you have any questions regarding this transfer.
SUBJECT OF BEQUEST
FOR 2977PREVIOUS Cotton
1-23
FILE NO.
DOC. SYMBOL NUMBER BOC. DATE
CONFIDENTIAL
OATC
TRANSFER
of
CHARGE
PERM
OR TEMP
CL 87: 007622
Re.no.
The new action desk officer must then fill out a 201 Personality File Action
Request (Form 813) to change the action desk designation to insure that the
201 personality will be included in the Headquarters and field machine listings
for his component..

7. RESTRICTED DOSSIERS

a. Access to a sensitive 201 dossier may be restricted by holding the file at the
desk or placing it on restriction in Central Files.
:
(1) The dossier may be restricted by checking Box-2 on the 201
Personality File Action Request (Form 831) when the file is opened.
:
26.5
:
:
SEGRET

(
SEGRET
(
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974
:
(2) The dossier may be restricted by holding it on permanent charge
from Central Files. (Note: To maintain the restriction of a dossier being
returned to Central Files for retention, a File Restriction Notice (Form
2021) must accompany the dossier.)

(3) The dossier may be restricted and held in Central Files by sub-
mitting a File Restriction Notice (Form 2021).
CONFIDENTIAL
(When Pilled la)
ΘΑΤΕ
INITIALS
IP/FI
GC-52 TUBE DT-6
FILE RESTRICTION NOTICE
IP/DCU
GC-40 TUBE HT-4
ACTION DESK: 1.
To restrict a file, complete Section A (sigusture of R.O. not
necessary).
2.
To remove a restriction, complete Section B (R.O. signature
necessary).
SECTION A
FILE NUNGLA
RESTRICT TO: (Use country or non-country code number. See CSI 70-28)
BESTRICTED BY:
COMPONENT:
(....)
Date:
SECTION B
REMOVE RESTRICTION (AUTHORIZED BY)
R.O. No.
COMPONENT:
Date:
FORM 2021***
CONFIDENTIAL
1.2 LAPDEY CL ET, OG7672 1131

b. Access to a restricted dossier located in Central Files is limited to the
personnel of the restricting desk or persons authorized by that desk. Any request
for the charge of a restricted dossier or any document within a restricted dossier
held in Central Files will be forwarded with the entire dossier and a multiple
routed cover sheet to the restricting desk. This desk may then forward the file
to the requester or deny the request and return the dossier to Central Files. The
desk will notify the requester of a denial.
::
c. Anyone requesting a restricted dossier, or a document within a restricted
dossier, permanently or temporarily charged to a desk, will be referred to that
desk by Central Files.
26.6
SECRET

(
SECRET
(
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974
?
8. REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION ON 201 PERSONALITIES
The Automated Index Section (IP/AIS) will provide the identity of the
subject of a 201 number unless the 201 file is restricted, in which case the
requester will be referred to the restricting desk.

IP/AIS will also provide the 201 number assigned to a name, unless the 201
file is restricted, or state that there is no 201 number assigned, Requesters should
supply identifying information whenever available for each name submitted.

'Requests pertaining to five or fewer names or numbers may be made by
telephone by calling the IP/AIS red line extension; IP/AIS will provide the
information by return call to the requester's extension as listed in the Badge
Table. Requests for more than five names or numbers must be listed and sent
by tube or courier to IP/AIS; IP/AIS will reply by return mail.

9. 201 DOSSIER CANCELLATION

A 201 file may be authorized for cancellation by a Records Officer, after
appropriate coordination. The file should be forwarded to IP/RMS which will
destroy the folder and the cards leading to it and will remove the name and
number from machine lists. Any Record Copy document contained in the folder
will be reclassified to another appropriate file or sent to the Destruction Unit
(IP/DU) as directed by the desk Records Officer.

10. 201 MACHINE LISTINGS

Machine listings provide field stations and Headquarters desks with names
and 201 numbers in the requester's particular geographic or functional area of
interest. If a component wishes to exclude a sensitive 201 personality from its
✓ alphabetic, numeric, and cryptonym listings, this may be done when opening
the 201 or later by a 201 amendment. On the 201 Personality File Action Request
(Form 831) leave the country of location (Box 15) and interest desk (Box 16)
blank, tise the non-country code 900 in the action box (Box-14), and indicate
permanent charge to the responsible desk. The only listing which will include the
201 number is the IP/201 record for the Vital Records program. 201 listings are
categorized as standard or nonstandard and as scheduled or special.

a. Standard Listings

Issued semi-annually to Headquarters and the field; based on a component's
interest as indicated in the "Action Desk," "Country of Location," and "Interest
28.7
SEGRET
:
I
::

FUL & CHINA
::
SECRET
(
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

Desk" blocks on the 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831). The
standard listings available are: i

(1) Alphabetical by
etical by surname, leading to a 201 number;

(2) Alphabetical by given name, leading to a 201 number;

(3) Alphabetical by cryptonym, leading to a 201 number;

(4) Numerical, leading to a surname;

(5) Numerical, leading to a cryptonym.
:..:
201 SIIRNAME ALPHA LIST
SECRET/ORGANIZATION INTERNAL USE ONLY
0311CT 1973..
NAME
TYPE
008
BIRTHPLACE
NAME
DA/MO/TR CTRY CITY
CAN, SHAL 1077185/1343/5030/
17JUL14
CHEN, KHANG TUNG
CHINT 0165401
CHEM. SHOU 1/7115/1343/0001/
DIPT
0234459
CHE, SHOU 1. 17115/1343/0001/A
24 JAMES
6179653
CHEM, SHOU-JFN 16774/1108/0088
90
CHIN, AMOY
BUSP CCOMP 0043751
201 01-101-2. ACT. LOC. fr.
CHIN HX
CHIN CHIN
: CHIN
CHIN HA
CHEY, SHELVE
04JAN19
CHIN, FUKIEN, PROV۰
CHIN7 0234629
CHIN CUBA
OEM SRL-4176 17109/1393/690
CHAT, SIC S-118 /715/1109/001
CIFE: SHCU-TA
210СТОВ
CIIIM, MANCINIPIA, PORT ARTH
CHAT
0179620
CHIN CHIN
A
12x0V22
CHIN, HUMA
CHAT
0069786
CHIN
18MAR45
CHIN
DIPT COOM
0905300
CHIM MALT
C41
CHIN, CANTאח
ENGR CHAT 0837655
:
CHIK HX
12J4NL
CHIN, FUKIEN
-ייי
09 JUN99
A
:
1906619
025E26 CHEN, LIACHING PRO
02 JUL 30
19
CHIN, CAMTOW
CHIN, KLANGTING PROY
CHIN, KWANGTUNG PROV.
CHIN, FIJAN TANG IS
CHIN. PFILIU
ARMY CHA 0328328
CHIN? 0124438
CH147 0130415
CCCM? 0091433
CHIA TAIW
CHIN
PROF CHINT 0040248
CHIN USA
CHAT7 0052638
CHIN MUAL
CHIN TAI
CHIN
TSEA CHAT 0797335
CHIK HOC
CHINZ 0200223
CHIN
0444577
CHIN ETHE
CI, SH-155467115/1109/1
CHEN, SHOU 128 /0701/1343/18ΟΥ
CHEN, SHEM-7115/1109/459
CHTY SMI-CHIN /7115/2595/6930
CSSCIPIAN 17119/3219/122
CHAN, SHU-CHAN 7115/2535/2
CES, SIN 7115/2085/2797
CHFA, SHU FEM
CHIM, SMI HAN /7113/2245/3185/
CFS SANG 17115/2579/74
CFY, SIM-104/7115/2985/7
CHER, SHU MSW 77115/2835/6133
CHIT. SHUートモンス
CHTEN SINI-1 4711.5/2975/5030/
CHEM, SU KU1/7115/2865/2710
Clish. SHI LAT
CHLH, SIPI LIANG 77115/0547/009
CHEM, SINS LIN 7115/2579/2651/
CHIEN SHI-140/2100/2973/010
CITO SHU-
CHET, SHY 4/7115/2885/0589/
CHLM, SHU-PA/7165/3579/0202/
CHIA, SHU-SEM/7115/2895/2773/
CIFY, SINJ-SHAW 17115/2579/091
CHEM, SHU-78 /7115/2445/1795/
CINFY, SHU TEH/475/
CIOFA SIM 11115/0647/6639
CUTE, SHE TUTELS/245/2737/
CIM. SIOU 24/7115/7647/0317/
COCA, SIRI-TA0/7115/2655/1031
CIIEN, SHU-17
CHIR. SIAP YI4 /7115/2845/531/
CHIM, SIRI-Y19/7115/2570/692/
Cofた。シャ١٠٧٢
PIMS-
NOV30
CIAC22
R
OF JULI
CHEN, RHANGTUNG
CHEY? 0179621
10
CHIN, FUKIEN
23FEROT
CHEN, WANGTUNG
CHIM? 0014759
CHIN
CCO? 0073195
OSMAYLO
CHIN, FOOCHOW
30×4326
A
CHIN, HOPET
2TROY23
CHIN, FANG CHIPNG
CHIN? 0171622
OIPT CCCH. 022-3161
DIPT CHAT 083-150
PROF CHINP 0175673
CHIN CHEN
CHEN
CHIN CHIN
CHIN CEY
CHILL USA
CHIM CHIN
CHEN
CCOM 0221972
CHIA CIIIN
CIRCOL
CHIN
DIPT CHIEN? 0223162
CHIN CHIN
25MMV20
CHIN. FENGSHUN
CHIN? 0179624
CHEN TAIM
01 JUL 29
CHIN. #TANGSU
MILA COOM 0854450
CHIN LACS
20SE 20
CHIN, HSTAM-HSLEN, KIANGSU
CHAT
154PR 30
CHIN, CHICHAS
CHAO CHIN? 0179425
009677CHEN USA
CHIN CHIN
10DEC19
CHIN, CHANGTING PROV.
CHAT? 0052638
CHEN MAALI
A
10DEC26
CHIN, KWANGTUNG
CHEN? 0085119
CHIN TATM
CHIM, FUKIEN PROY
CHINT 0103249
CHIN CHIN.
CHIN, SHANGHAI
GEOL CHIM? 0763416-
CHENBUR
V
CHIM, CHANG SHO
0013991
CHIN
CIPCTS:
CHIN, HANG CHO
CHINE 0153929
18 MAR 17
CHIN:
AOZFEBOS
FIN CCON0767462-ON "UK
019132035 CHIN
LAOVOS
CIIEN, КъейстONG
CC0170303196
CHIN
OSAPR17
CHIN, PEIPING
CHINT 0107306
CHIN CHIN
15 JUNOS
CHEN? 0179624
CHIN CHIN
CHIN, HENG YANG HSIEN, HIJN ARMY
CHAT
6340624
CHIM TAIM
INT
0311810
CHIN DFH
CHIM? ChiS4010
CHIN
CHINT 0144758
CHIN PAIN
PAGE
27JAN25
210EC37
27HA 20
CHIH, FARG CIETU
LTIFA38 CHIN. CIENTANG
отосго
21APP21
CHIN, SHANHA
04SEP2F CHIK. SEECINAX
C. 11115/2574/3842 ויז/
SECRET/ORGANIZATION INTERNAL USE ONLY
12 IMPORT CL GY 094974
26.8
SECRET

(
SECRET
(
DOHB 70-1-1.
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

All standard. listings are cumulative; previous editions must be destroyed
upon receipt of current editions. These listings are by their very nature extremely
sensitive compilations of information and must be given every possible safeguard.
2.
b. Non-Standard Listings
:
i
Based on one or more of the following selection criteria:
(1) Country of location
(2) OI codes (organization and/or intelligence affiliation)
(3) Citizenship
:
(4) Year of birth (plus or minus a given number of years)
(5) Occupation.

These selection criteria may be used singly or in combinations. For example,
a user could obtain a list of all 201 personalities who have been assigned the
OI code of XX or codes of XX, XY, or XZ. A 201 personality list could also be
produced of all persons who were born in Germany between the years 1915
and. 1920, with the occupation.computer specialist, who are now citizens of the
United States, located in Mexico, and who had been assigned the OI code AA.
Note however that the listing would contain only those personalities with an
OI code AA. Those personalities with an Ol code other than AA and those
with no OI code would be excluded. The requester could however ask that
persons who have not been assigned