14-00000
104-10143-10088 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

(
SECRET
(
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III
15 November 1974
:

ANNEX B

THE 201 SYSTEM

Rescission: Annex B of Chapte PLB 70-1-1, 27 October 1966

1. INTRODUCTION
REPRODUCTION
ProPROHIBITED
The 201 system pro method for identifying a person of specific in-
terest to the Operations Directorate and for controlling and filing all pertinent
information about that person. The system also provides a means for identifying
subjects of 201 files from various categories of information about them and for
producing lisits of 201 personalities according to those categories. Only a rela-
tively small number of personalities indexed are of sufficient interest to justify
opening a 201 dossier. These are normally subjects of extensive reporting and
CI investigation, prospective agents and sources, members of groups and organi-
zations of continuing target interest, or subjects on whom a volume of corre-
spondence has accumulated.

2. THE 201 SYSTEM

The principal features of the 201 system are:

a. The 201 Number: a unique number, i.e., 201-1234567, assigned to each
individual in the system to serve as identifying file number for reporting on that
individual.

b. The 201 Dossier: the official file con fairing the 201 opening form (Form
831) and all biographic reporting on and references to the individual, i.e., per-
sonal history, current states and prospects
file co fairing
OHIBITED
c. The Master 201 Record Record: a machine record generated by the opening of
a 201 file. This record produces the master 201 reference for the Main Index and
stores the pertinent information which may later be retrieved for special listings.

d. Main Index Master 201 Reference: this reference, printed in reply to an
Index Search Request, is printed as illustrated below. When data are absent
within the record, succeeding data items or lines will be moved up and the ref-
erence consolidated.

23
SECRET
0001763
PAGE
COPY NO. PE 20
14-00000.-
SECRET
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974
0002 CROIX, WILLIAM PENDLETOL
1 SEX M DOB 12 APR 26
2
CIT GERM
AACD-1234530 ROB GERM BERLIN
OCO PHARMACIST
OCC CODE CHAN
6
SUBJECT RECENTE ATTENDED THE SEVENTEENTH ANNUAL
CONFERENCE OF THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF CHEMISTS
AND PHARMACISTS HELD IN MUNICH GERMANY PROM 22 THROUGH
29 ОСТОВВВ
остоввв
PROHIBI
NOV 70
00833555
14
8
201-0032671*
TYPE ΝΑΜΕ T-
ΟΙ CODES ΛΑ XX-(10)
RCO DATE 53
11
Information About Subject
1. Sequence Number and Name
2. Sex and Date of Birth
3. Citizenship
4. Place of Birth
5. Occupation
6. Occupation Code
7. Text
Document Reference Data
REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED
8. 201 Number
9. Name Type Indicator
10. OI Codes
11. Record Date (year only)
12. Reference
ISG Control Information
13. Date of latest update of the record
14. STAR Index Record Number

24
SECRET
6001764
FACE 3
CORT NO. OF
F
14-00000
C
C
(
SECRET
(
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974
e. OI Code: a two letter symbol used in
sonality records in the 201 system to record the
with organizations or activities of OI codes cover intelli-
of an individual
operation Punction with the 201 per-
associ
gence and security service affiliation whether staff or
suspect, as well as activities of
codes for use by
interest. The
components DDOerest
(1) general OI dades
(Attachimentere are two categories of OI
agent, or known or
(2) OI codes assigned to a specific
ation feed
component for intelligence services
or other specific organizations
À component may request an Ol code be established by submitting a mem-
orandum to the DDO/RMO through the component Records Management
Officer.

A 201 personality may be assigned two OI codes. An OI code may be assigned
when the 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831) is initiated (see
paragraph 3b below) by filling in Box 13 or a code may be assigned or added
at a later date by a Form 831 amendment.

The 201 system has the capability of producing machine listings of 201
personalities by OI codes. For example, if an Of code has been opened for the
security service of a certain country a listing may be compiled of all members
of that service.

f. 201 Machine Lists: produced from the mechanized 201 Index, based on
names or other identifying information of personalities on whom 201 dossiers
exist.

3. OPENING A 201 DOSSIER
a. General
EPRODUCTION
The opening of a 201
ation
the prerogative of an operational com-
ponent, in coordination
Servicees Group. An opening creates
a master 201 record Changes to
of a 201 dossier are controlled jointy by the desks and ISC. 201 dossiers may be
to the master record and the occasional closing
opened on persons who meet the carding carding criteria described in Chapter II of this
handbook, when there is a reasonable expectation that additional information
will be acquired and filed in such a dossier. Generally dossiers are opened on:
persons about whom counterintelligence information is being reported, and per-
sons of operational interest to the Operations Directorate, specifically those
persons for whom provisional operational approvals and operational approvals
are requested (see exception below). 201 files are not to be opened on staff
↑ employees, staff agents and most categories of contract employees. Files on

25
SECRET
PAGE 4
of 20
0001765
CUPY NO.
1
14-00000
SECRET
(
C
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

persons who are only of local interest to a field station or Headquarters desk
and on whom no DDO records correspondence exists are not a part of the DDO
records system and are to be maintained by that unit. Some desks levy require-
ments on ISG for automatic 20 20k openings on
gs on certain categories of persons whose
names appear in incoming dispat Despatches. These are
listed in Attachment 2. 201
dossiers should be opened to the following categories:

provisional operational
approval and operational ap-
proval requests. However afweneed not be opened when a POA is requested
for persons being trained for a foreign liaison service and who are of opera-
tional interest for training purposes only.

(2) Persons for whom the field requests a 201 opening.

(3) MHFIXTURE personalities: bonafide diplomats of other than
denied area countries, in close association with staff personnel.

(4) Subjects of a Personal Record Questionnaire Part I.

(5) Persons on whom a Main Index search reveals information in five
or more documents (see DOI 70-20).

(6) Subjects of Interagency Source Register memoranda from LSN/
ISR (opened only by IP/RMS).

b. Requesting a 201 File Opening

Headquarters desks may open a 201 file by filling out and submitting
a 201 Personality File Action Request Farm Request Form 831) to the Records Main-
tenance Section (IP/RMS) Form 83t is also used to create or amend the
machine to register the assign-
master 201 record and
the assign
ment of a cryptonym a 201 personality. Hachment 2 contains a sample
201 Personality Pedon Request for opening Fite Dedon Requests for opening and amending 201's. A field
station may request the opening the 201 file by writing 201- in the Head-
quarters file or cross-referees box box on the dispatch form and/or after the
subject's name in the body of the dispatch. A telepouch request for a 201 opening
is made by indicating 201- in the file number line. A cable request is made by
placing 201- after the term "File" on the last line of the transmission. IP/AN
will open 201 files as requested by dispatch or telepouch but it is the responsi-
bility of the desk to respond to cable requests. Field stations are notified of
201 openings through receipt of the field master 201 record.

26
SECRET
6001766
PAGE
5020
COPY NO.
14-00000-
SECRET
(
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

4. CONTENTS OF THE DOSSIER

Information about a 201 personality should be filed or cross-referenced into
his dossier. When additional information is discovered on a 201 subject through
a name trace or other process, i.e., review of Pradecessor documents, it must
be consolidated into his personality dared See Dor 70-20 for consolidation
includes bo
procedures.

Material which is fi e dossier but is not limited to:
a. 201 Personality File Reguirest can(Form 831).

? b. Biographic infa vncluding photographs, fingerprints, and
handwriting samples.
1

c. Personal Record Questionnaire Parts I and II.

d. Operational and other security approvals.

e. Name check replies, requests, clearances, and approvals.

f. Acknowledgement of pseudonym.

g. 201 personality assessments and evaluations.

h. Copy of contract and termination papers.

i. Secrecy agreement.

j. Agent Duty Status Report.

k. Training and evaluation.

l. SGSWIRL repo

m. Newspaper ings.

n. Any CABITED provide a better understanding of the
subject and our interest in him this may include operational reporting.

5. MAINTENANCE OF 201 DOSSIERS

The 201 personality dossier contains, in document date order, papers which
have been made a part of the Central Records System as well as those which
have not. Record documents may range from newspaper or magazine articlės
on the subject to finance and other administrative papers.

26.1
SECRET
0001767
PAGE 6
COPY KO. OF 20
14-00000
(
C
(
SECRET
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

a. Purging

Purging a 201 dossier is the responsibility of the desk officer. It requires
discrimination in recognizing operationally useful material, rather than the
simple distinction between official and unofficial papers; it will therefore take
place under the supervision of a Records Officer. Purging should be done
periodically. A 201 dossier dossier being forwarded to Central Files for retention should
be purged. A 201 dossier should be purged of the following:

(1) Duplicate material, i grace accopy(s) of a document.

(2) Name 362) unless it has been the basis for
the opening.
PROTICON

(3) All abstract slips.

(4) All document restriction notices (Form 1884).

(5) The disseminated version of positive intelligence information if
a copy of the raw report is contained in the 201 file; the dissemination number
then must be transferred to the first page of the raw report.

(6) Routing slips, routing and record sheets (Form 610) and dispatch
cover sheets unless there are remarks such as coordinations or comments.

(7) Record copy documents which only repeat substantive information
contained in other documents in the file; authorization for destruction is
by the Records Officer.

(8) Top Secret documents are at docum not to be
forwarded to Central Files; the retained in a 201 dossier
downgraded for retention
in the 201 dossier. To downgrade a Top Secret document, an authorized
officer in the originating office of the Records Of
Records Officer having jurisdiction
officer having jurisdiction
over the contents of the material must possess Top Secret classification
authority. If the document cannot be downgrade the file should be retained
at the desk or the document should be removed, retained
in a desk TS file or forwarded to the Top Secret Control Officer, and a
cross-reference sheet (Form 867) placed in the 201 file giving the location
of the TS document.

cannot be downgraded the file should be

(9) Deferred documents (see 5b(2)).

b. Maintenance Procedures

(1) All material in a 201 dossier will be filed in document date order.
In the case of document attachments which have been classified into a 201

26.2
SECRET
0001768
2 of 20
CCPT 30.
14-00000

SECRET
(
C
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974
7

dossier and separated from the basic document by the assignment of a slash
number, the attachment will be filed by the date of the basic document.
:-

(2) Deferred documents will not be filed in a 201 dossier. If they are
to be retained in the dossier they should be sent to RXRMS for classification
into that 201.

(3) Field index cards be retained in the 201
some desks) and area desk cards may
the 201La part of fo
should be mounted on Ra Eun-size sheet of paper fo
part of a consolidation procedure.
These cards
filing in the 201..

(4) A 201 dossier presionale opened Don
a person who becomes a staff
employee and which contams Record Copy documents will be restricted to
the ISG/DIP unless the desk retains the restriction. The dossier should be
closed if there are no Record Copy documents in it.

(5) A 201 opened in pseudonym should be consolidated into the true
name 201 if one exists or converted to the true name.

(6) Field and duplicate (shadow) 201 files no longer of active interest
should be incorporated into the official 201 after the duplicate material
has been purged by the desk officer and the remaining information classified
to that 201 by the Analysis Section (IP/AN).

(7) Any document with a predecessor organization cover sheet or an
OPC (Office of Policy Coordination) cover sheet from the Archives and
Disposition Section (IP/ARD) must be to IP/ARD for processing
to the 201.
returned

Declassifi informat
(8) Desk memorandaf without a document source number)
containing subrogatory information on the subject of the 201
should be sent to PLA
to be classified officially into the 201 file.
which should be separat
000

(9) An attachment from its basic document
for inclusion in a 201 201 Ropani dossier will be forwarded with the basic
document to IP/AN for prosessing into the 201.

(10) To retain the P&L, RYBAT, or KAPOK sensitivity of a document
remaining in a 201 dossier being retired to Central Files, place that document
in an envelope sealed with black tape (see DOI 70-17). Any RYBAT, P&L,
or KAPOK document sent to Central Files not in a black-taped envelope will
automatically be handled as desensitized. A black-taped envelope may con-
tain only one document and must be filed in chronological order within the
file. If there are numerous documents of this type the desk officer may black-
tape the entire dossier rather than individual documents (see DOI 70-10).

26.3
SECRET
6001769
F of
COEY NO.
14-00000
C
(
(
SECRET
C
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

Black-taped dossiers or dossiers with black-taped documents will be
handled as restricted dossiers..

(11) An inactive 201 dossier or an inactive volume of a large 201
dossier on permanent charge should be returned to Central Files under a
Routing and Record Sheet with them below..:

REPRODUCTIO

UNCLASSIFIED
ONLY
CONFIDENTIAL
SHEET

SUBJECT: (
TRANSMITOL
MACTIVE 201 DOSSIERS
FROM
☑ SECRET
TO O
1.
IP/Files
GC-52
2.
2.
4.
5.
6.
8.
9.
10.
DATE
OAPICERS
INITIALS
DATE
COMMENTS [comment to sh
where line cascoach
(For guidance see CSHB 70-1-1,
Chapter III, Annex B.)

Volume(s) of volume(s)
of 201-

Restricted Dossier
(Attach Form 2021 to
Dossier)

Non-Restricted Dossier

Charge Dossiers:
11.
Il documents prior to
(date)

12.
forwarded
IP/Files. All
13.
(date)

14.
ytained
at
desk.
15.
CL BY: 007623
FORM
5-74
ΘΙΟΣ
X SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED

26.4
SECRET
0001770
14-00000-
C
(
SECRET
(
C.
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

6. 201 DOSSIER CHARGES

A 201 dossier may be kept on permanent charge at the desk during any
period of active interest. If the dossier is transferred to another desk, the desk
officer who is transferring the dossier must notify Central Files of the transfer.
Central Files will then send the Notice of Transfer
ability (Form 2977) to the new
of Pransfer of Document or File Account-
desk officer

TO: ΜΑΜΣ
action
PR

CONFIDENTIAL
(when piilad In)
NOTICE OF TRANSFER OF DOCUMENT OR FILE ACCOUNTABILITY

BADGE
::
COMPONENT
ROOM
TUBE
EXT.
This is to notify you that accountability for the document(s) and/or file(s) cited
below has been transferred to you by:

NAME
BADGE
COMPONENT
Accordingly, IP's records now reflect you as the custodian. Please contact IP/Files,
Ext. 4362, if you have any questions regarding this transfer.
SUBJECT OF REQUEST
FORM 2077PREVIOUS EDITIONs
1073
FILE NO.
DOC. SYMBOL & HUMBER
DOC. DATE
DATE
OF
TRANSFER
CHARGE
PERM
OF TEMP
ΑΣΩ. Но,
CONFIDENTIAL
CL 87: 007622

The new action desk officer must then fillo 201 Personality File Action
Request (Form 813) to change the action desk de
desk designation to insure that the
201 personality will be included the Headquarters and field machine listings
for his component.

7. RESTRICTED DOS
a. Access to a sensitive 201
placing it on
desk or
may be restricted by holding the file at the
Central Files.

(1) The dossier may be restricted by checking Box 2 on the 201
Personality File Action Request (Form 831) when the file is opened.

26.5
SECRET
0001771
PAGE 10 of 20
COPY NO.
14-00000
C
(
SECRET
(
C.
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

(2) The dossier may be restricted by holding it on permanent charge
from Central Files. (Note: To maintain the restriction of a dossier being
returned to Central Files for retention, a File Restriction Notice (Form
2021) must accompany the dossier
may be res

(3) The dossier
mitting a File Restriction Notice F
IP/FI
TO
GC-52 TUBE DT-6
IP/DCU
GC-40 TUBE HT-4
ACTION DESK: 1.
2.
de (Form 2021).
estricted and held in Central Files by sub-

PROHIBITED
CONFIDENTIAL
(When Filled In)
INITIALS
FILE RESTRICTION NOTICE

To restrict a file, complete Section A (signature of R.O. not
necessary).
To remove a restriction, complete Section B (R.O. signature
necessary).
FILE NUNDER
SECTION A
RESTRICT TO: (Use country or non-country code number. See CSI 70-28)
RESTRICTED BY:
COMPONENT:
(MANS)
Date:
SECTION B
REMOVE RESTRICTION (AUTHORIZED BY)
COMPONENT:
R.O. No.
Date:
FORM
2.73 2021 TIONS
USE PREVIOUS
CONFIDENTIAL
E-2, IMPDET CL BY: CG7:22 (13)

b. Access to a restricted dossier located in Central Files is limited to the
personnel of the restricting desk or persons authorized by that desk. Any request
for the charge of a restricted dossier or any document within a restricted dossier
held in Central Files will be forwarded with the entire dossier and a multiple-
routed cover sheet to the restricting desk. This desk may then forward the file
to the requester or deny the request and ERNTA
desk will notify the requester of a dania
the dossier to Central Files. The

PROHIBITEDA
c. Anyone requesting
a res, or a document within a restricted
dossier, permanently or temporan
desk by Central Files.
charged to a desk, will be referred to that

26.6
SECRET
6001772
11 of 20
COOK NO.
14-00000

(
SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

? 8. REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION ON 201 PERSONALITIES

The Automated Index Section (IP/AIS) will provide
the identity of the
subject of a 201 number unless the 20f file is bestdicted, in which case the
requester will be referred to the restri g desk.

IP/AIS will also provide ide the 201 number assigned to a name, unless the 201
file is restricted, or state that there is no 201 mumbe assigned. Requesters should
supply identifying information whenever available for each name submitted.

D

Requests pertaining to fivevor fewer names or numbers may be made by
telephone by calling the IP/AIS red line extension; IP/AIS will provide the
information by return call to the requester's extension as listed in the Badge
Table. Requests for more than five names or numbers must be listed and sent
by tube or courier to IP/AIS; IP/AIS will reply by return mail.

9. 201 DOSSIER CANCELLATION

A 201 file may be authorized for cancellation by a Records Officer, after
appropriate coordination. The file should be forwarded to IP/RMS which will
destroy the folder and the cards leading to it and will remove the name and
number from machine lists. Any Record Copy document contained in the folder
will be reclassified to another appropriate file or sent to the Destruction Unit
(IP/DU) as directed by the desk Records Officer.

10. 201 MACHINE LISTINGS

Machine listings provide field stations and Headquarters desks with names
and 201 numbers in the requester's particular geographic or functional area of
interest. If a component wishes to exclude a sensitive 201 personality from its
alphabetic, numeric, and cryptonym listings, this may be done when opening
the 201 or later by a 201 amendment. On the 201 Personality File Action Request
(Form 831) leave the country of location the country of location (Dos and interest desk (Box 16)
Box
blank, use the non country code 900 the action code 900 in the action box (Box 14), and indicate
permanent charge to the responsible desk The only listing which will include the
201 number is the IP/201 record for the fathe the Vital Records program. 201 listings are
categorized as standard or nonstandard and as scheduled or special.

a. Standard Listings

Issued semi-annually to Headquarters and the field; based on a component's
interest as indicated in the "Action Desk," "Country of Location," and "Interest

26.7
SECRET
0001773
103 12 09:0
OX 30,
14-00000

(
SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

Desk" blocks on the 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831). The
standard listings available are:
..
(1) Alphabetical by surname leading to a 201 number;

(2) Alphabetical by given N
(3)
Alphabetical bare leading to a 201 number;
ש Veryptonyra lead
reading to a 201 number;

umerical, leading to a surname;

(5) Numerical Cing to a cryptonym.
FUL A CHINA
CHEN, SHOW 1/7115/1343/0001/
201 SURNAME ALPHA LIST
03 ICT 1973

NAME :
CNN, SO 1. 17185/1343/5030/
SECRET/ORGANIZATION INTERNAL USE ONLY
TYPE
008
BIRTHPLACE
NAME
DA/MOZYR
CTRY CITY
17JUL14
CHIN, KHANG TUNG
CIPAN, SHOU 1. /7115/1343/0001/
CHE, SHCU-JF16774/1108/0038
24 JAM11
90
CHIN, ΑΨΟΥ
CHEY, SHOU MET
DAJANL9
CHEN, SHOU-NING 17109/1343/690
CHAN, SHEU 51118 77119/1109/001
CHIN, FUXIEM, PROV.
210CT08
A
11222
CHIN, HUNAN
CHF SHCU-TAN
1PHAR45
CHIN
CHFY, SHC-13440/7115/1109/1
CHEN, SHCU TZE 10701/1343/1807
CHEN, SHOU-V61 /7115/1109/499
C41
CHIN, CANTON
025EP26
12JAN18
CHEN, SHCリー
09 JUN99
٩٨-٢٠١٢
A
CY. SH-CH14/7115/2295/6930
CPT SHY CAN
7115/3219/122
CHIEN, SHU-CUAY 7119/2395/2
CHEN, SHU 17115/2-85/2797 אינייים
און
A
CIAC22
CHEN, SHAJ FIN
1905619
02.JUL 30
19
NDV30
CHIN, PANCINIPIA, FEAT ARTH
CHIN, LIACNEEC PRO
CHIN, FUXIEN
CHIN, CANTON
CHIN, RANGSUNG PROY
CHIN, KWANGTUNG PAGV.
CHIN, MIJAN TANG IS
CHIN. PFILIU
DIPT CCOM 0905390
ENGR CHAT
CHIN? 0130415
CCCM? 0091833
PROF CHIN? 0040289
CNAT? 0052638
0328328
CHIN? 0124438
CHIN TAIW
CHIN
CHIN USA
CHIN MHAI
CHIN TAIH
CINIIK
CHIN MX
CHEN
OCC. CIT.
201 01-1 01-2. ACT.
LOC. INT.
Cray
CISY
CHIN? 0165401
CHIN HK
DIPT
0230859-
CHIN CHIN
78653
BUSP CCOM? 0363751
CHIY
CHIN? 0234629
CNAT
0179620
CHAT
0069796
CHIN HK
::
0837855
CHIN CUBA
CHEM CHIN
CHIN
CHIM HALT
CHIN HK
ARHY CNAT
TSEA CHAT
0797335
CHIN? 0200223
R
CHY, SHIH /7115/2785/3185/
0988577
08 JUL14
CHAN, SI SLANG 17115/2579/74
CF SIP-3106 /7115/2785/7
CHIN, KHANG TUNG
CHIN ETH!
CHIV? 0179621
10
CHIN, FUKIEN
CHIM CHIN
CHIN? 0014759
23ΡΕΠΟΥ
CHIN, KHANGTUNG
CHIN
CHEN, SHU HSLY //115/2895/8133"
CCOM? 0073195
OSMAY18
CHIN, FOOCHO
CIEN
CH. SHI-ハリン
CHIN? 0172622
30MA326
CHIN CHIN
CHEN SHII-1 2711.5/2925/50301
DIPT CCGM.
0223161
A
06F5816
CHEM, SHU7115/2285/2710 זיו
CHIN, HOPE!
CHIN CEY
0830156
27NOV23
CHIN, FANG CHIANG
CHITH, SHU LAY
PEOP CHIN? 0179673
CHINI USA
R
CHIN
CHIN CHIN
CHEN, SHU LIANG 71150547/009
CHEN. SINI LIL 17315/2579/2651/
0221072
CIACZ1
CHIN
CHEN CHIN
IN? 0223162
25NOV 20-
CHEN SH-L140 17107/2973/010
CHIN, FERGSHUN
CMN? 0179624
CHEN CHIN
01 JUL 29
CHIN, XIANGSU
CHIN TATH
にげい。SH
CCOM
0954150
A
2056°20 CHIN, HSPA+TS
CHIR LACS
CPFN, SHU TEH/475/
CHEM, SI NA 17119/2895/0589/
CHLM. SHU-P4 /7115/2579/0202/
CHEN, SHU-SEM 17115/2895/2773/
CHEY, SH-534 /7115/2579/091
CHEN, SHU-TE 17115/2495/1795/
CHAT
0096247
1502730.
१९०६८19 CHIP
A
10DEC26
V
CHEN, SHUNG 17115/0647/6639
CHF, SHU 129 /7115/2025/2737/
CHEN SHU 72 7115/7647/0317/
CHEN, SHU-YA/7115/2635/1031
CHIEN, SH-YIN
CHEN. SI YI /7115/2895/5301/
CHEN, SH-14 /7115/2579/6992/
٢١٠٢١٢٠٢١١-ソリ
アックスリリー
C/7115/2579/3942/
A
27JAN25
021ARTHY, CHANG SHU
LAMAR
CHEW HANG CICH
110406
05APR17 NIA
15 JUNOG
CINH
0200130
CHÍN, HENG YANG HSIEN, HIJN ARMY
17FF139
CHIN. IKEANG
PROHIBITED
CANO CHIN?
0179625
CHIN CHIN
NAT?
0052630
CHEN HWAI
WIN7 0085119
CHIN TAIW
CAIN? 0103219
CHIN CHIN
CHIN?
0763916
CHEN BUS
CHIN
CHIN? 0153927
CHIN CHIN
FIN
CCOM
0767442
CHIN UK
0191320
.
CHIN
C0047 0023196
CHIN
CHINT 0107336
CHIN
CHIאנו מ
