104-10178-10049 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

. I am
an application for bay a hoare at 626 S.H and 29 St. I made my
application through Rose Realty that is located at 8345 Coral way. I have
to pay $ 100 dan by the VA plan or $ 300 doon by Filli plan and a Bachily
pay out of $75.00. I have to use my cover of Tri State) for my credit
references. I fill my application and pat in there that I was working for
this Company for two years, that my salary was $ 120 a week, and tha
position in this Company is like an electronic technician. Sould you please
advise them of all this matter interder that when they will receive the
papers from VA or FHA fill then the right way?
I can not use RECE for the application of this credit because an exile
group corporation is no good for this kind of credit references; As I told
you I am not going to uco Tri State any more but it is an exoption
29
COVER notified, they will handle. II 20 September 1966

7/PV
4. Tri-State Engineering Service, Inc is located at
600 First National Bank Bldg., Miami 1. The local mailing
Address is P.0, Box 3737, Miami 1, Flash The telephone number is
08377-6633 (cover phone located in Cover Branch.) Er. Potor T. Fay
is President of the firm, The fira is engaged in the general
practico of engineering in all its branches with particular em-
phasis in the fields of Harino engineering, including marino sal-
vago, underwater research, underwater comunications, underwater
demolition, and off-choro petrolowa and mineral oploration and
development.
