14-00000.
104-10215-10146
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

S-E-C-R-E-T

ATTACHMENT #2

TRAINING REPORT

TEAM/GROUP: PBRUMEN II
(211 hours, full-time)
11 July - 13 August 1966
(Date)

Student: FRANK
56

COURSE OBJECTIVE AND CONTENT

This course is designed to train indigenous personnel in paramilitary
resistance activities and intelligence collection operations in denied
areas. Approximately 70% of the student's time is devoted to practical
work and field exercises and 30% to the theoretical aspects essential for
a logical understanding and application of training covered during the
course.

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
* U - Unsatisfactory
Performance is so low in relation to requirements
of the work as to be unequivocally below minimum
standards.

W - Weak
Achieved minimum standards, but less than adequate
(in terms of indigenous personnel participating in
the program).

A - Adequate
Has achieved the basic level required. Satisfactory,
characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P - Proficient
More than satisfactory. Has acquired a solid
beginner's proficiency. This rating may be
interpreted as representing "average" on our rating
scale.

S - Strong
Exceptional proficiency, characterized by thorough-
ness, initiative, originality, and an exceptional
student understanding and application of paramilitary
resistance activities.

O - Outstanding
Performance is so exceptional in relation to require-
ments of the work and in comparison to the performance
of other students doing similar work as to warrant
special recognition.

* Modification of the Office of Training standard rating scale at the
specific request of JMWAVE.

S-E-C-R-E-T
14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T
FRANK

HOURS   RATING
1. MAP READING (ABILITY TO REPORT LOCATIONS
USING GRID COORDINATES) 12  P

2. NAUTICAL CHARTS   8  P

3. WEAPONRY (U.S. & FOREIGN)  31  P

4. CLANDESTINE MOVEMENT  -  -

5. RESISTANCE ORGANIZATION AND OPERATIONS 20  P

6. AMBUSH TACTICS AND OPERATIONS  24  S

7. RAID TACTICS AND OPERATIONS  24  P

8. CACHING    20  P

9. CLANDESTINE MOVEMENT LINES (E&E)   -  -

10. OBSERVATION AND DEPORTING TECHNIQUES  40  S

11. LEADERSHIP TRAITS AND CAPABILITY  See Comments

12. OPERATIONAL PLANNING ABILITY  See Comments

13. SKETCHING   12  A

14. SABOTAGE (SEE ATTACHED STB REPORT)  -  -

15. TARGET PHOTOGRAPHY   -  -

16. AIR RECEPTION ACTIVITIES  20  P

17. WEAPONS QUALIFICATION
(TEST RESULTS ATTACHED)  Pistol  Non-Applicable
      Rifle  Sharpshooter
      SMG  Sharpshooter

OVERALL PERFORMANCE   RATING LETTER
      P

Rating takes into account trainee's effectiveness, such as performance
in operational skills, tactics, techniques, leadership, planning, teamwork,
motivation and limitations.

2
S-E-C-R-E-T
14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T
FRANK

The ratings above, and narrative comments hereunder, are derived from a
synthesis of all evaluations submitted on each respective trainee by the
instructor staff.

Overall performance ratings of all students in this class were as follows:
WEAK 0 ADEQUATE 0
PROFICIENT 6 STRONG 0 OUTSTANDING 0

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Over-all, FRANK was the most conscientious and hardest working
student in his class. His serious attitude and fine performance warranted
a highly proficient rating.

In preparation of plans, completion of written exercises, and
execution of field problems, he demonstrated a high level of achievement.

During the Ambush Exercise, FRANK had a leadership role during
which he adhered to a detailed plan, exerted good control over the team,
and produced a very successful ambush operation.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF TRAINING:

PREPARED BY:    APPROVED AND FORWARDED:

erome M. Greiner   JOSEPH M. HUDACEK  8/30/66
JEROME W. GREINER  Chief Instructor  Date
Project Officer

3
S-E-C-R-E-T
14-00000

FRANK- Frank was the hardest working student of the group. He con-
sistently applied himself to all phases of the training with equal and
great diligence. However, his practical work, which took him a
great deal of time to perform, was always a little sloppy. When
Frank crimped detonators or threw improvised grenades, he was
very shaky. However, he did not seem at all nervous about working
with other hazardous material. He asked many pertinent questions
which contributed to the group's training and always answered test
questions correctly and in detail. He was cooperative and reacted
well to correction. Some supervision was required since the staff
instructors were concerned about his nervousness with detonators.
His overall performance was rated as proficient.

SECRET
