104-10167-10083 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

DIAZ

22 September 1959

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Conversations with REICHHARDT, 8, 9, 16, 17 September 1959

1. On 8 September Reichhardt phoned to report the following:
a. He took Marcos DIAZ Lans to the office of INS on Monday, 7 September to take care of his immigration status. (Comment: I was later called by Bill COTTER
of the Alien Branch, CS concerning this. CUTTER said that when they reported this to INS that service said that AEFENS, the INS man in Miami has told them that DIAZ hearing had already been held shortly after his arrival. COTTER implied that Bernie was not reporting accurately on the situation in Miami. I have not re-peated this to Bernie, because Alien branch seems to be in something of a tissy in regard to the new people in INS with whom they are dealing as a result of recent transfers of personnel.)

b. Porrata asked me to clarify what I wanted in the way of an affidavit of support for the wife of Marcos DIAZ. I dictated a simple statement and told Bernie to have it notarized and accompanied by a bank statement or similar document indicating WILLIAMS' ability to support her. I told it became unnecessary.

c. Bernie reported that Mrs. Catherine TAAPS, the international busybody claims that she is going to Cuba on our instigation. She is accompanied by her entire family. This information came from the Miami Chief of Detectives to the 00 Representative.

d. Bernie asked how he could identify himself to the three evacuees in Miami we have instructed his to contact re going to the Dominican Republic on our behalf. I told him to use Dave Morales' name.

e. He asked me for information on our dispatch to Cura in connection with the PRC's for AC00 and the gift. I told him I'd check and let him know. (Comment: The same day I saw a dispatch from Havana answering the questions, an info copy of which went to Bernie.)

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

SECRET
2.

2. I phoned Reichhardt on 9 September and we discussed the following matters:

a. I told him about the visit of Angel Bus. He said he had talked with VERS on this matter and that VERS reported that Bus came to Miami on 1 September and left on 3 September. VERS thinks he is a secret police agent. Bernie is to see VERS for details on this. (Comment: Reichhardt's report was received on 11 September.)

b. Reichhardt asked me to check on his money situation since no deposit has been made.

c. Reichhardt asked if I had seen copies of the news letter being distributed by Emilio MONTUONDO called Latin American Events. IN MEZ is listed as editor and publisher and the firm is Latin American Affairs Inc., 1023 Connecticut avenue, Washington. The first issue was published on ? August. The 17 August issue includes a list of Communists. (Comment: I am arranging for the CIA library to procure loan copies of the publication for me to review.)

d. MWEZ was in Miami last week. ORTEGA did not see him, but according to TEGA's sources, MWEZ strongly implied that he has succeeded in obtaining US support in the Departments of State and Defense including commitments for training sites in the United States. MEZ also said that he is in touch with Col. King. This was covered in Uhaz-15.

3. On 15 September I talked with Reichhardt concerning the following
a. Ricardo LORIE saw ROS. Bernie will see LORIE about this.
b. Bernie will see FOX this week.
c. The addresses for the two evacuees who came by way of El Salvador are not correct. I told Bernie to try to find out where they are from the third, with whom he is in contact.

d. Bernie asks that his local travel order be renewed. (Comment: I checked this and the order has been renewed through 31 December 1959.)

4. On 16 September the following matters were discussed with Reichhardt:

SECRET

SECRET
a. SANINS: He called in the morning to ask for infor-mation on this man. According to Reichhardt, LUATE says that he was fire from the DIER for anti-Communist activities and was expected to arrive in Miami last night. UAE is worried about him because of his previous post as No. 2 man in the Mia. The Cuban card confirms that he held the latter post.

b. De LORIE says that he knows RCS well, and likes him. They met in Miami last week. RCS is in Miami again. RCS is principally interested in getting Reynaldo BLANCO out of Cuba. RCS says he was told the American Embassy can have no part of this but suggested he (RCS) ask De LORIE to see his Miami contact about assistance. Bernie discouraged LORIE about helping BLANCO. Bernie feels it is strange that Station Havana would tell ROS about LORIE's Miami contact and that the former might have mis-represented what was said. (Comment: We cannot positively identify BLANCO although such an individual was listed by LORIE and the DIAZ Lans as an Army officer. It may have been one of the 1957 regular army plotters.).

c. LORIE also asked help in converting Pesos to dollars. Bernie did not give him an answer on this.

d. LORIE said he wants to establish contact with ROS. The plan we have so far only envisages communication from RCS in Havana to LORIE. While Bernie would prefer to handle the matter personally, I think I convinced him that this is unfeasible because of the danger of provocation. He therefore suggested having Cheesman brought into the picture, anonymously, as an individual who would get in touch with LORIE when there is something for him from ROS, and who will call LORIE periodically to find out if LORIE wants to transmit anything to ROS. This sounds OK to me. Bernie will see CHESMAN within the next few days on this.

e. LORIE told Bernie that Cuban opposition views BONSAL'S trip to the US as a victory for the opposition but that if BONSAL returned to Cuba they will view the return as a triumph for CASTRO.

f. According to an 00 source Mrs. Katherina TAAFE will be returning to the US from Cuba in a few days. She told at least one American in Cuba, Barry Rosenfeld, that she is working for CIA.

SECRET

SECRET
5. In connection with my earlier query re the report from Cube that the Revolutionary Air Force is planning to remove a couple of planes from the US to Cuba without an export permit, Bernie got the following information from STEPS. A Cuban air force mission is in Miami concerning the aircraft. The Cubans are happy with the way STEPS has handled things for them even though they don't have the export license yet. As has been asked STEPS to a party in Havana to be given by Juan Almeida in his honor. He may go on Friday. Do we have requirements for him?

5. On the morning of 17 August I phoned Bernie to tell him about the followup on the report concerning the planes (Haba 2653). He said Reynolds phoned him on the evening of 16 September about this. Bernie said he passed the information to Customs, who said that since the Cuban Air Force are the owners of the planes (they are AT 6's) there is little that can be done if they file flight plans for a local flight and then leave for Cuba. They asked Bernie for suggestions and he said he had none. STEPS reports that the Cubans asked him if he could find American pilots for the planes and he said he'd try, but actually has no intention of doing so. STEPS was impressed at the speed and accuracy of our information, but believes that the Cuban Government is being precipitate in expecting to get the planes out.

SECRET

T. J. Flores/WH/III/40
