14-00000

104-10291-10002
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

STANDARD FORM
No. 730)
CINTH SERVICE COMMATION
From
ral Vromor Manual
201-00

SECRET

Official Personnel Folder

89. MAY ENTE

SECRET
IMMDDIATELY APTE.....
IOR 75-132 Fox 24
437115
TERMINATED
CODED
E
14-00000

SECERT

REPRODUCTION MASTERS
Hand. 1. e
SECRET

BIOGRAPHIC PROFILE
FIGGRAP
With Care

SECRET
14-00000
1. SERIAL NUMBE
060947
SECRET
(When Polied las
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
8. MAME (--)
WHEELER ROBERT P
3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
RETIREMENT (CIARDS) VOLUNTARY

4. EFFECTIVE DATE ATQUESTED
MONTH
12 31
DAY
YEAR
73
6. FUNDS
DATE PREPAΡΙΟ
27 Dec 72
3. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
REGULAR
٧١٥٧
10 V
CP TO OP
7. FAN AND NSCA
4221-0117-10000
8. LIGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office of
Perunnel)
Public Law 88-643-
Section 233
10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
DDO/PLANS STAFF
CAREER MANAGEMENT GROUP
NONOFFICIAL BRANCH
11. POSITION TITLE
Esver

WASH., D.C.
12. POSITION NUMBER
13. CAREER SERVICE DESIONATION
OPS OFFICER - CH
14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (CGS. 1.8. etc.)
CS

15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
0136.01
18. REMARKS
16. ORADE AND STEP
17 5
D
17. SALARY OR BATE
$ 36,000
Supergrade Beure
LAST WORKING DAY 28 Dec 73
Coordinated with Paul Seidel/ROB 27 December 1973
10A. SIGNATURE OF PEQUESTINO OFFICIAL

19. ACTION 20. EMPLOY, 21.
CODE
1001
45.10
29. NTE EXPIRES
MO.
DA.
YR,
35. YET, PREFERENCE
OFFICE COUING
NUMERIC
DATE SIGHED
1
180 SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE/APPROVING OFFICER
J.L. Olmstead, C/MSB
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
27. STATION
23. INTEGETE 24. HOGTES, 25. DATE OF BIRTH
COOL
DA. TH.
ALPHABETIC
29. SPECIAL
REFERENCE
30.
FICA
36. SERY. COUP. 0411
-DA
YR.
RETIREMENT DATA
Coor
CODE
CODE
MO
1.10.104.11
31. SEPARATION 32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA
DATA CODE
TYPE
6.BJ,90,0,3
MO. DA.
39.
CODE
26. DATE OF SPADE
MO DA.
78:
DATE SIGHED
27 Dec 73
27. DATE OF LEI
MO. DA
Y
४२.
EOD DATA
31. SECURITY
REO, BO.
34. SEX
FEGLI HEALTH INSURANCE
-15
HEALTH INS CODE
CODE
0-NON1
1-371.
2-10 P1.
MO
MO.
37. 10NG. COMP DATI
04. 12.
je
CAR/REGY
CAREER CATEGORY
CODE
PROY/TEMP
41.
FREYIGUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE
42, LEAVE (AT. 43.
1006
FEDERAL TAS DATA
44
-O-NO PREVIOUS SERVICE..
1-NO BRIAE IN SEICE
FORM EXECUTED CODE
ΝΟ. ΤΑΣ ΕΠΣΜPTIONS FORM EXECUTED
2-3AIN SERVICE (LESS THAN 3 YEARS)
٢٤٤-١٠
2-0
٢٤٤-١
2-NO
ACER THAN YEARS!
45. POSITION CONTROL CERTE CATION
12-27-73
12
1974
45. PAPPROVAL
JAN
PORM
1152
USE PREVIOUS EDITION
SECRET
CLASSIFIED BY
01-0332
24-2
APLIE
40, SOCIAL SECURITY KO,
258-750844
STATE TAR DATA
CODE BU TAE STATE
DEEP. COCE
CATE APPROVED
2-7 DEC 1973
(4)
14-00000

3 APR 1974
Mr. Robert P. Wheeler
6600 Millwood Road
Bethesda, Maryland 20034
Dear Pete:

I am happy to send to you, under separate cover,
your Agency Retirement Medallion. The Medallion is a
tangible form of recognition and appreciation of your
service to the Agency. It should serve as a lasting
reminder of an honorable career, rewarding associations
and the knowledge that you played your part in a vital
activity.

Let me, therefore, add my congratulations and
wish you the very best for the future.

Sincerely,

F. W. M. Janney
Director of Personnel

Distribution:
Addressee
0
OPF
OP/RAD/ROB/MWBenthall:jth (26 March 1974)
14-00000-
1

26 JAN 13
Executive Roji::
74-522
Mr. Robert P. Wheelor
6600 Millwood Road
Bethesda, Maryland 20034
Dear Pete,

As you reach the end of your activo career
of Government service, I want to join your friends
and colleagues in wishing you continued succose
and satisfaction in your retirement.

You have been privileged to face the challenge
of important responsibilities during your many years
of service to your country. The success with which
you have met this challenge should be a source of
lasting pride and satisfaction to you.

May I extend to you, personally and officially,
my sincero appreciation for the important work you
have done and my warmest hopes that you will find
full enjoyment in the years ahead.

Sincerely,
ZW. E. Colby

W. E. Colby
Director

Distribution:
0 Addressee
1 DDCI
1- ER
1 D/Pers
OPF
1 ROB Soft File
Originator:
1- ROB Reader

Director of Personnel
23 JAN 1974
OP/RAD/ROB/MDLasnek:jat/3257 (17-January 1974)
14-00000

CPF
TO

29 January 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Plans Staff

THROUGH : Deputy Director for Operations
SUBJECT :
Distinguished Intelligence Medal
for Mr. Robert P. Wheeler

The Honor and Merit Awards Beard is pleased to
notify you that the Distinguished Intelligence Medal
has been approved for Mr. Robert P. Wheeler and requests
that you inform him of the award. Arrangements for
presentation may be made with the Executive Secretary,
Honor and Morit Awards Board, extension 3645, room 412,
Magazine Building.

/s/ R. ..

R. L. Austin, Jr.
Recorder
Honor and Merit Awards Board

01 Distribution:
Addressee
OPF w/forms 382 & 600
1 Exec Sec/IMAB
1 Recorder/IMAR
14-00000
REPORT OF HONOR AND MERIT AWARDS BOARD
Executive Registry
196
OFF
DATE
18 December 1973

The Honor and Merit Awards Board having considered a recommendation that:
SENIAL OR 10 NO.
060947
OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENT
DO/CMG
BIRTHYEAR
1915
TYPE EMPLOYEE
BE AWARDED
51
NAME (Loit-Firat-Widdl0)
WHEELER, Robert P.
M Staff
30
SCHEDULE GRADE
STATION
D
GS 17

Intelligence Medal of Merit

FOR HEROIC ACTION ON

FOR MERITORIOUS SERVICE OR ACHIEVEMENT DURING THE PEDIDO September 1952 - December 1973
RECOMMENDS APPROVAL
DOES NOT RECOMMEND APPROVAL
RECOMMENDS AWARD or Distinguished Intelligence Medal
UNCLASSIFIED CITATION

Mr. Robert P. Wheeler is hereby awarded the Distinguished Intelligence
Medal in recognition of his outstanding achievement with the Central Intelligence
Agency for more than 23 years. Serving in a series of responsible senior
positions both in headquarters and abroad, Mr. Wheeler has compiled an enviable
record of achievement. Demonstrating deep integrity and total dedication, his
performance has been characterised by creativity, and superb leadership.
Mr. Wheeler's devotion and professionallem have been evident throughout his
career, reflecting the highest credit on him and the Federal service.

REMARKS
(Recommendation approved by DD/O on 10 December 1973)

APPROVED
FORM
382
9-73

D

1 Vernen, K. Wales
OF
9 JAN 1974
DATE

TELLIGENCE
どうい
M. Jacney
TYPED NAME OF CHAIRMAN, HONOR AND MEDIT AWARDS DOARD
SIGNATUFE
F. W. M. Janney
(signed on original)
TYPED NAME OF HECORDEW
By
(4)
14-00000

SECRET
(whom Filled Inl
RECOMMENDATION FOR HONOR OR MERIT AWARD
)Submit in triplicate bee HD 20-ונג
PERSONAL DATA
SECTION A
1. 107.519.NO
0609-17
Wheeler, Robert P.
4. CFFICE OF ASSIGNATA
DDO/CNG//NOC
4103
D. HOME ADDRESS (St. City Co
X
6600 Millwood Rd., Bethesda, Md. 22034.
12. RECOMANDED ABAND
Intelligence Medal of Merit

Adelia Wheeler
13. NAME OF NEXT OF AIN
SECTION B

10.
LPADE
9. 50
D
3. POSITION TITLE
Ops. Off/Chief GS-17
STATION
(Specily location)

" CITIZENSHIP ANTI HOS ACQUIRED
U.S., Birth
IF PETISINETIREMENT 14.
229-1973
31 December 1973
POSTHUMOUR
X
10. RELATIONSHIP 17. HOME ADDRESS (W. St.City. State, 211 Code)
Wife
same as above

RECOIDIENDATION FOR AWARD FOR HEROIC ACTION OR ACCEPTANCE OF HAZARD
"
19. WERE YOU AN EVERITNESS TO THE ACT
PERSONNEL IN PREDIATE VICINITY OR WHO ASSISTED IN ACT OR SHARED IN SIE HAZARD:
21: OAGN. TITLE ここ、GRADE
20. FULL NAME

22. OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENT
LIST ANY OF THE ABOVE PERSONS GIVEN AN AWARD OR HECOMENDED FOR ARAD FOR PARTICIPATING IN ACTI
74. FULL NAME
25. AWARD RECOMMENDED

CONDITIONS UNDER ANICH ACT WAS PERFORMED:
26. LOCATION
27. INCLUSIVE DATES
こさ、TIME OF DAY

29. PREVAILING GEOGRAPHIC CONDITIONS AND ODSTACLES ENCOUNTERED

30. DATES FOR MICH AWARD RECOMMENDED
31.
ASSIGNMENT COUPLETED
2. NOW IN SAME OF SELATED ASSIGNMENT
SECTION C
RECOMMENDATION FOR AWARD FOR ACHIEVEMENT, SERVICE, OR PERFORMANCE
33. DO YOU HAVE PERSONAL ANOWLEDGE OF THE SENVIER OR PLOEGAWANCE
34. OFFICIAL ASSIGNMENT PERSON MECOMMENDED AT TIME OF SERVICE ON SERRANE
Ops Officer/Chief
35. COMPONENT OR STATION (Designation and location)
CMG/NOC

26. DUTIES AND RESIDILITIES OF ASSIGNED POSITION
Chief, Nonofficial Cover Affairs Branch

27. INCLUSIVE DATES ECOMENDED
Sept 1952-December 1973
ASSICOMENT COMPLET10
5.IN SAME-OR RELATED ASSIGNHI
PERSONNEL WHO ASSESTRO OR CONTINUED SUBSTANTIALLY TO THE SERVICE OS PERFORMANCE
40. FULL NAMI
4. 08. 7172
GRADE
43. OFFICE OF ASSIGMENT
τ

LIST ANY OF DE ABOVE PERSONS GIVEN AN ARAND ON RECUPENDO FOR AGAR PARTICIPATING IN THE PERFORMANCE
44. FULL NAME
45. TYPE OF

10600
SECRET
141
14-00000
SECTION D

NARRATIVE, DESCRIPTION
Award for Nerole Activator Acceptance of Hornet: Wus art voluntary? Describe what was outstanding, and if it was more than normally coperted.
Lophiin, why, and how. If un serial or marine operation, describe type and podia ed salt, crew position of Individual, and all unusual circumstances.
Indicate results of the act inclose unclassified citation.

Award how Achievement, Service, or Performance: State character of service during posind two which recommended. (Gire complete dexriptica of admin.
strchre, technical, or pratessional duties and responsibilities it not covered in Sorture ; include doors of mosigament and relief.) What did the Individual
do that merits the award? Why was this cutstanding when compared to others of the grade and experience in similar positions or circumstances?
oppropriate, baclude production records and anistance rendered by other pormas on ande
wh
What obstacles were encountered of overcome? Indicate 10.
echierement, service, or performance, Jaclude reference to Fitness Reports, Lations of Commendation, or other documentation already en file which
suppach this recommendution, Enclose unclassified citation.

Mr. Wheeler entered on duty with the Agency in September 1952 for
assignment in Tokyo. During the period from 1952-1956 he served in the
capacity of Deputy Chief, FI Ops and Chief, FI Liaison. For several years
he served in responsible positions at Headquarters and was promoted to
GS-15 in 1957. In 1959 he returned to Tokyo as Deputy for Operations and
as DCOS until 1964. He was promoted to GS-16 in August 1964. From
1964-1966 he served at Honolulu Base. In 1965 he was appointed COB,
Honolulu. From 1966-68 he served in the Office of Planning, Programming
and Budgeting. In 1968 he was reassigned to the Missions and Programs
Staff and in 1971 was appointed Chief, MPS and served there until January
1972 during which period he was promoted to GS-17. In 1972 he was
appointed Chief of the then designated Sonofficial Cover Affairs Division
(presently Nonofficial Cover Affairs Branch), from which assignment he is
retiring.
Mr. Wheeler's outstanding characteristics are his integrity and total
dedication. He is a natural leader, bright and original. He has a
creative mind, is articulate and rational. He has excellent recall, is a
gifted administrator and manager. He is a searching individual who is
totally committed and has the high regard of most of the elements com-
prising the DDO. During his tenure he has received laudatory commenda-
tions for his efforts.
Mr. Wheeler has made a valuabic contribution to the Agency during his
extended career and it is fitting that upon retirement after such a
distinguished career, he be awarded the Intelligence Medal of Merit.
CONTINUED ON ATTACHED SHECT
46. ENCLOSURES (List individually) IF ORIGINATOR IS NOT AN EYEMS1925 09 Dors NOT HAVE PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE OF THE ACT
OR PERFORMANCE. ATTACH AFFIDAVITS OF EYLOITNESS OR INDIVIDUALS HAVING PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE OF THE FACTS.
1. PROPOSED CITATION
2.
3.
١٠٢٤٤ ١٥٠ OLE OF LUPLOYEE WARING RECOM
MENDA

B. SECOMMENDATION INITIATED SY
49. DATE
Gordon Mison
Chief, CMG
PODRU
SECTION.E

RECOMMENDATION FORWARDED THROUGH OFFICIALS CONCERNED FOR THEIR INFORMATION

50. DDO
CAREER SERVICE
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF CANICH SERVICE

TEPLE AND SIGNITUDE
See Item # 52
Sức Item #52
DATE

CATE
DEPUTY DIVECTOR OF Optastina COMPORIN?
ORF

William E. Nelson
SECRET
DATE
Vi Dic 77
14-00000
H-31
e.al
2713
SECRET
ibon Pulled la)
REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION
1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. plane (Last-First-
060947
:.
Wheeler, Robert P.
MONTH
3. MATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
Reassignment
6. PUNDS
DOA
A OLA
X
OF TO V
9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIONATIONS
DDO/Plans Staff
Career Management Group
Non Official Cover Branch
939

EFFECTIVE DATE PEQUESTRO
DAF
18 September 1973
S. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
PRAS
0913/23 Regular
PINANCIAL ANALYSIS NO.
CHARGEANE
4221-0117/0000
10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
LEGAL NUTHORITY (Complored by Office of
Preve!

Washington, DC..
12. POSITION NUMDER
13. CAREER SERVICE DESIONATION
11. POSITION TIT
Ops Officer-Ch
14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB,
(17)
0049
is, OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
16. GRADE AND STEP
D
SALARY OR BATE

GS
18: REMARKS
0136.01
17/4
Reassigned from DDO/PS/CMG Pending Reassignment
of Supee blue
16A SIGNATUER OF QUESTING OFFICIAL

$36,000

5.?
183 SAJNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVOG Omacte
DATE SIGNED
7/7/03
Olmstead
10. 120. EST. 21
