14-00000
104-10163-10136
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM
UNCLASSIFIED / CONFIDENTIAL / SECRET
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

TO NAME AND ADDRESS / DATE / INITIALS
1. JAS/ESAC / 12 May 1980 / J.K.
2. JAS/Div/Taske / May 1980 / W.C.
3. I. Kanzell / May 1980
4. AMCLATTER/I / May 1980
5.
6.

ACTION
APPROVAL
COMMENT
CONCURRENCE
DIRECT REPLY
DISPATCH
FILE
INFORMATION
PREPARE REPLY
RECOMMENDATION
RETURN
SIGNATURE

Remarks:

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER
FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO. / DATE

UNCLASSIFIED / CONFIDENTIAL / SECRET
(237) / (Use previous edition)

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

---

SECRET

"Former Contacte vivana Itakon"

able personal courage, good security and common sense. In my mind he
is the ideal type of Latin American agent. It will be a real loss to
the Agency if we lose sight or contact with adolfo. I have met few men
more dedicated and more loyal.

271764

5. Ramon USATEGUI Lazara AMFAN-3, Fecruited by APAN-2 and so
close to each other that we referred to them as the Gold Dust Twins."
Ramon was in the shipping business in Havana and eventually had to
leave. In lost his home, cars, furnishings, etc. His him is now
planning to send him to Nicaragua, and I have recommended him to the
Nicaragua desk (Prental) 03He has all the qualities ascribed to
Adolfo SAN FELAYO (see above) except that he has never been an American
citizen. He speaks excellent English. He is dedicated, courageous and
host anxious to maintain contact with the agency. It will be our loss
if this is not done.

251609

6. Herbert L. Barker. AMCLATTER-1. Wife: Clara. Barker is a
Cuban-American. Ex-Cantata in the U.S.A.F. See PKQ and 201 for fuil
bio data. I recruited Barker in 1959, end he served faithfully until
we had to exfiltrate him sometime in 1960. He recruited a number of
valuable agents for the Station (including AMCLATTER-5, which see) and
had an amazing encyclopedic knowledge of Cuban persons, events and con-
tacts in all walks of life. He was a boxing manager and knew intimately
all Cuban personalities engaged in the sporting industry. He had a puppy-
dog loyalty to his case officers and to the Agency. His biggest weakness
was his lack of discretion. He was such a loyal American (actually if
not technically) that he would fight at the drop of a hat if anyone cast
espersions on the United States or its leaders. In the atmosphere of
Castro's Cuba I might say that that was quite often. We are in the
process of helping him recover his lost American citizenship. When the
Station reopens I would certainly recommend that we continue to maintain
contact with Barker. If nothing else he would make a wonderful leg-man
for the Chief of Station. His wife is an attractive Cuban gal who is bi-
lingual and as belligerently "American" as he is. Barker, by looks and
by language, could pass either as an American or a Cuban - a genuine
asset if he could be taught to submerge his americanism.

Manolo VEGA Abril I met Manolo through Jorge ALONSO (See
above re prisoners in Cuba as a result of the 17th of April invasion).
Manolo is working for us now in Miami, and I presume we have full bio
data on him. Manolo's family owned, along with Republic Steel, the big
steel plant to Savannah which was nationalized by the Castro regime (Cir.
Antillana de Acore, S.A.). Manolo has a brother, Nestor VER would
also be worth cultivating. Through his business and family connections
Manolo knew a great many people of operational interest. One of his
friends was David SALVADOR, although Manolo did not share SALVADOR's
political thinking extreme left and anti-US).

objective reporter as I have ever encountered among ist.

SECRET

31BR
