14-00000
104-10120-10276 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
Background
Do Not Reprod
8 May 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Technical Services Division
ATTENTION : Mr.(Clay Kallander)
TERU : Office of Security/OSD
Attn: Mr. Gikas
Central Cover Staff
Attn: Mr. James Franklin
SUBJECT : Request for Official Documentation
REFERENCE : WAVE 8138 (IN 32980)

31
1. It is requested that a (U. S. Army Investigator Credential)and
Civilian Identification Card be issued in alias to the SAS employee
identified hereunder.

2. The credential should identify the employee (with the U. S.
Army, Joint Operations Group, and the title designation should be
INVESTIGATOR.)

3. The credential will be utilized generally in the Southeastern
part of the United States and possibly in Latin American in pursuit
of the mission of SAS. Further the utilization of the credentiel will
be on a controlled basis as directed by the Chief of Station, JMWAVE.

4. The alias set forth in the attached identity sheet has been
DDS/IOS registered with RI. Pertinent biographic data has been set forth on
ADDS/IOS the Identity sheet.
ASST/IOS 5. Photographs for the individual were forwarded to TSD on 6 May
1963. Subject's social security number is (055-18-4137)according to the
above reference.
C/ID
C/OSD
C/SRD
C/AB
C/PB
C/SAB
C/SB
08
6. After the credential has been signed it should be forwarded to
P. Lewrence, SAS/Security Officer, Room GH-56.

7. Any questions regarding the foregoing matter should be directed
Mr. Lawrence, ext. 5909.
&TS
FILES
ttachment:
a/s
c: OS/OSD, Ccs
0-65077
VINCENT J. HEYMAN
Chief, SAS/Support
14-00000
IDENTITY SHEET

TRUE ALIAS
Balmes N. HIDALGO, Jr. Bernard Forman HILLARY)
07
DOB: 27 May 1919
HEIGHT: 5'9"
WEIGHT: 165 lbs.
EYES : Brown
HAIR : Black
SOCIAL SEC NO.: 055-18-4137
