104-10226-10011 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

19-120-26
UR
6 April 1961

Chief, Counter Intelligence Division
Support
ATTN: Chief, Miami Office

Memorandum of Visit to: Julio Pablo RODRIGUEZ Reyes
3332 N.W. 2nd Avenue
Miami, Florida

1. Mr. Frank Waterston, representative of the US State Dept. in Miami,
advised this office that Subject arrived in the US on 21 Mar 61 as an exile
and that he might have information of interest to this office.

2. On 4 Apr 61, Louis H. Rodriguez interviewed Subject in Waterston’s
office. An examination of Subject’s passport disclosed that he was born on
23 Jan 1943 in Havana, Cuba.

3. Subject stated that he is a member of a clandestine organization named
United Revolutionary Movement (URM), which is composed of 15 underground groups. The
coordinator for military operations of it was Major Humberto BORIA Faria, who
was arrested recently. Among the leaders of UR are Rogelio GONZALEZ better
known by his name de guerre of “Tresletero”, and Rafael DIAZ aka “Ralph”. All
these individuals were arrested recently and UR is completely disorganized as
a result.

4. Subject also stated that his sister with URM was to serve as courier
between the organization and the Catholic Chaplain at the Cabana Fortress.
The liaison between the Chaplain and Subject was Fray Fabian, who is the sacristan
at the Jesus de Miramar Church, in the suburb of Miramar, near Havana.

5. Subject also made a trip to Sancti Spiritus in the Province of Las
Villas bringing a radio transmitter for the anti-Castro guerrillas operating
in the Escambray. Through the above mentioned priests, Subject obtained, some
information furnished by prisoners held in the Cabana fortress which is being
transmitted to support forces.

6. Subject intends to remain in the US indefinitely and has been instructed
to contact a Cuban national named “Barreto”, who resides at ........
Miami. Barreto is the UR representative in Miami.

7. No further contacts with Subject are anticipated.

JUANITA F. O’LEARY

Action Chief in the
security risk
(no discipline)
by
Rodriguez/cab
