#SECRET

104-10112-10148 - 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

4 March 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Personnel Security Division
CONEIN, LUCIEN
SUBJECT:  Reassignment

1. It is requested that clearance be granted
for the reassignment of AZBA
CHBACH, ZRJEWEL
Career Agent, to Caracas, Venezuela under AID Cover.
5025
2. 's security clearance number is
32
16-17:
3. It is planned that will depart
Headquarters during June, 1965.

Desmond FitzGerald
Chief
Western Hemisphere Division

Date: 7/12/81
Security Approval has been granted for
the use by his request.

Chief, Personnel Security Division

#SECRET

---

105025
#SECRET

REQUEST FOR DOMESTIC COVER LIST ENTRY OR CHANGE
SUBMIT THIS FORM IN DUPLICATE, ENCLOSED IN SEALED ENVELOPE

TO: Central Cover Staff
THROUGH: Office of Security
SUBJECT: CORREN, Lucien E.
(True Name)

DATE:

ENTRY Inclusion of Subject on the Domestic Cover list is requested as noted
below: When notified that cover has been established, Subject will be
specifically authorized and instructed to conceal his Agency affiliation.

CHANGE Subject is currently included on the Domestic list. For the reason
noted below, it is requested that:

This employee be removed from the Domestic Cover list?
The following change be made

_ where he was stationed under

military cover. He was temporarily scheduled for duty at ISOLATION and

TYPE COVER:

USE OF COVER: ALL PURPOSE: OPERATIONAL ONLY: OTHER GOVT. AGENCY:

REQUESTING OFFICE:

STAFF OR DIVISION: SIGNATURE AND TITLE:
or Chester E. Security Officer

CENTRAL COVER STAFF APPROVAL: OFFICE OF SECURITY APPROVAL:

SIGNATURE: SIGNATURE:

DATE: DATE:

FORM
1322
USE PREVIOU
ED
DATE:
Serir
cer
JATY

OFFICE OF
SECURITY

#SECRET

---

105025
#SECRET
REQUEST FOR DOMESTIC COVER LIST ENTRY OR CHANGE
SUBMIT THIS FORM IN DUPLICATE, ENCLOSED IN SEALED ENVELOPE

TO: Central Cover Staff
THROUGH: Office of Security
SUBJECT: CORE, Lucien E.
(True Name)
02
DATE

ENTRY Inclusion of Subject on the Domestic Cover list is requested as noted
below. When notified that cover has been established, Subject will be
specifically authorized and instructed to conceal his Agency affiliation.

CHANGE Subject is currently included on the Domestic list. For the reason
noted below, it is requested that:

This employee be removed from the Domestic Cover list
The following change be made

_ma where he was stationed unde

v scheduled for duty

TYPE COVER:

USE OF COVER: URP

OPERATIONAL ONLY:

OTHER G
GEN
NONOFFICI

REQUESTING OFFICE:

STAFF OR DIVISION: SIGNATURE AND JITLE

CENTRAL COVER STAFF APPROVAL
FORM 1322 USE PREVIO
EDITION

DATI
fetson E Security Officer

OFFICE OF SECURITY APPROVAL
SIGNATURE

DATE

#SECRET

OFFICE OF
SECURITY
