# 1104-10072-10001
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET
OPERATIONAL AMD SOURCE COVER SHEET 22
FROM: (San Jose, Costa Rica
REPORT MADE BY: Stefan R. Lebanos/s1
REPORT APPROVED BY: Stefan R. Lebanow
DATE OF REPORT: 1 February 1956
DISTRIBUTION:
By copy to: 
2 - Washington, u/att.
2- files
Orally to:
Basbasay
이
SOURCE CRYPTONYM: (HUSSY)
REPORT NO. (HRS-906
NO. PAGES: 2
NO. ENCLOSURES: 80s below
REFERENCES:
16-21-(Cantemala, u/att.
16-31-(Manico,u/att.
16-261-(8cm Salvador, u/att.
16-231-(Santiago, u/o att.
16-71-Panema, w/o att.

ID NO. IG NO.
KRYPTON: YES NO
SOURCE, OPERATIONAL DATA, AND COMMENTS

16-2 16-3
Attachments: 1 copy each of attachment to (atemala) (Hexico) and (San Salvador.
2 copies to Washington.

INDEX

SECRET
PAPY

---

# 14-00000

SECRET
FIELD INFORMATION REPORT
COUNTRY: 
SUBJECT: Guatemalan Exile Activities

22
CA

10
PLACE ACQUIRED: Costa Rican, (San Jose)
SOURCE, SOURCE EVALUATION, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT

High level Central American exile (F). Appraisal of Content: Dowry
On 14 January 1956 (Col, Carlos PAZ Tejada, under the alias 07
Col, Francisco COSENZA Galvez in Costa Rica from Ban Salvador
addressed to the accommodation address "Just MARCIA Tartado 2692)
which is used by COSENZA, and is translated as follows
y
.,"
"Although I have wanted very much to answer your letter of 7 Decanter 147
very-mok, many things have obstructed it and so time has slipped by gir
my wish, so that I have been able to write you only today.
with
"In spite of the latest news which you must be familian: I really believe
happened is nothing but an incident, natural to the trade.
that the crazy one with whom we were dealing was trying to negotiate and
participate in the winnings which there would be without much riat on his par
If the business failed for one reason or another, it does not signify anything
more than a loss of time and some short-range hopes, but not in an important
manner.3 Far from that. Something positive is being accomplished within a
general line of forcing Maria Dolores to act in a manner which is good for ...
I hope to continue in the activity and I have exactly the patience of a per
repairing its net 'n wait for a fly to fall into it.

"With relation to what you transcribed from Dona Ticha, that is due to the st
that the fat one who was formerly so close to me, has patted from me
dedicated himself to the task of defaming me because he was unable to get
something he wanted from me. Since he has nothing else to say, he says thام
I have very strange rolations or that I belong to the courades. 1s you will
understand, this is nothing more than a disloyal means, in which he is an
expert. The friend? who recently arrived from El Indicted/can increase your
information concerning this. I have already written to the good friend of
already'mi morona '9/so that he may explain if there is an opportunity. Although she is
really suffering a strong edition in her actibil and I do not think she
will recuperat. chan pl.

"I have strengthened the connections with Roquelo and other friends of the

SECRET
-
FORM NO.
1 NOV 53 51-58
PREVIOUS EDITIONS MAY BE USED.

200-4-173 212
-

FUGE CAND REPRODUCTIONS

---

# 14-00000

SECRET

22
CHRB-906
'finca ni morena'. I think that, depending on how things appear, we should
cctivate our requests and also gontemplate now solutions to the large problem.
I an writing today to the farw to maintain a continuity of action and to
see if the prevailing circumstances can be taken advantage of and given a
purpose.

"I consider it extremely important that we maintain ourselves in closer
correspondence than up to now. I understand that it is I who have failed to
answer you, but I hope that the explanation of the events as sufficient.
Failing to do co would be to fail to show interest and would even result in
everything becoming cold and paralysed for who knows how long.

"The big carl Arrots me very affectionately. I think that the problems that
they cause each other are completely negative and that they cause us to deviate
from the only road which should be followed."

SOURCE COMMENTS:
1. (col. Ernesto
WIEDERHEITMANN
2. A reference to the planned revolt which was discovered and destroyed by
the Guatemalan Government in December 1955.

3. A code name for Quatemalan President Carlos CASTILLO Armas.

4. Augusto CHARNAUD MadDonald.
5. (Major) Marco Antonio FRANCO Chacon. According to Humberto GONZALEZ Juares,
there was a disagreement between FRANCO and PAZ Tejada, which resulted in
FRANCO arising CHARNAUD of PAZ' dealings with

tellen.4
6. The Communists.
7. Humberto GONZALEZ Juares.
WIEDERHEITMANN

8. El Salvador.
9. Mexico.
10. (Col) Adolfo GARCIA Montenegro.
11. Guatemala.
12. Juan Jose AREVALO.

SECRET 200-4-173212
THE CARD REPRODUCTIONS

---

# 14-00000

Sn. Salvador 19
HIPS
Cumque ha sido mucho mis deses disigiels
para dar respuesta a la tuya del 7 de dice ppdo, rec
tha ido dyicmilands y poco a poco parando
Risispo, es que
hace que ontia in voluntad, hasta hoy fores
dinginle estas liness.
A pesar de las ultimas noticias que habis abo
vo pass de ser un incidesalt
cres que lo incedido
yo
Lasral en el oficis. En realidad to eres que el boco con quien
tatomos, estate tratando de regreias y participar en las greca
parte. Asi lo calling
gore hubieran
sin muchas arribant de tou
ba desde el pomepro y por ins
posible de compromrisedeco.

parte
comporrised
spor b, razones
pertida
Guess esperanzis a
ental. Jejos de iso
Lincamiento gensial
Ma,
?
di iso
hos comvibel.
algo positive
oll
trate de obtener it mássic
Con il negocis fallo poro
ma, que de lisnaps f

ve esta estoniendo dentes
maria Dolores actuat en informa
esperanzes de contimsar en la as
la paciencia de la araña, ne
La mosesta caiga prouts can
vidad y estoy jrecivamente con
allabandani ba rad an expolia de que
bon relación
dine que it eso se tite
Juato a me, por
dedicats a
no
a
lo que
me traverises de doña Bicha,
que al goodils goodits aquel que antes cattates,
thi algo se diss furioss of
algo.
oftener de thi
la noble Karen de difamarine, especialmente, ga Jun
no puede decir olen cosa, que tengo muy cutradas relaciones of
limeges a la comasas. Como tu comprendes, calo no so the
cuperts Et c
medis blesteat, aunque el en estes es
hase poos llegó de por el Judiste, la podel
200-4-123 212
топоT OBTAINABLE

---

# 14-00000

Elvira rashan
Elvira Pachur
Sr. don
Justo Garcia
Apartads Houta: 2692,
Sou José,
VIA AIR MAIL
Costa Rica, Glo
REPRODUCTION 13 BEST OBTAINABLE
FROM APERTURE DARD SUBMITTED

---

# 14-00000

Eres que
lione e incluso contempora
Coolbeg
Hoy
Pacar la contimidad de accion
ver las civemalamen
IS REST OOTAINABLI
FROM APERTURE DA
