2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ROUTING
22 SECRET
1 2 3 4 5 6

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: 8

INFO: V, ADDP, DODS/L, DODS 4, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CA/C 4, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, FI, FI/D, FI/INT 2, 16. LE 4, WE 4, WH, OD/1, AD/CI 2, AD/NE, AD/RR 3, VR.

TDCS

SECRET 2100302 DEC 21 01472 63 IN 85247

DIR INFO WAVE CITE MEXI 7489

INTEL TYPIC DESIGNET

REF DIR 70123

SUPDATA SOURCE DESIGNET FROM [ITALINA] AND [FRENCH] AMBASSADORS TO CUBA, CUBAN MERCHANTS AND SUGAR EXPERTS

FILED 21/00352

REPORT CLASS SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM HMM-8185 SUBJECT EFFORTS OF CUBAN GOVERNMENT TO INITIATE COMMERCIAL BARTER WITH WEST EUROPEAN COUNTRIES DOI DEC 63 PADA MEXICO MEXICO CITY 20 DEC 63 APR 3 SOURCE WESTERN EUROPEAN BUSINESSMAN WHO TRAVELS FREQUENTLY TO CUBA WHERE HIS COMPANY MAINTAINS COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.

NO DISSEMINATION OF THE ATTACH
TO FORTION OF
MADE CU THE AGENCY FOD
RELEASE BY THE ACI ON UNIT.

TDCS
PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE
PRIORITY

RELEASING OFFICER DATE DISTRIBUTED BASED ON
SECRET

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

COUNTRY CUBA
SUBJECT

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

REPORT NO. TDCS
DATE DISTR.
PRECEDENCE

DATE OF INFO.
PLACE &
DATE ACQ.
APPRAISAL
REFERENCES
IN 85247

FIELD REPORT NO.
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

END OF MESSAGE

1. THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT HAS RENEWED NEGOTIATIONS FOR THE PAYMENT OF DEBTS RESULTING FROM EXPROPRIATIONS MADE FROM CERTAIN WESTERN EUROPEAN BUSINESS INTERESTS. THE CUBAN MINISTRY OF FOREIGN TRADE IS TRYING TO INTEREST WEST GERMANY, ITALY AND FRANCE IN COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES SO THAT A FAVORABLE ATMOSPHERE WILL PREVAIL AT THE TIME OF THE COMPLETION OF THE SUGAR CROP HARVEST IN MARCH 1964, WHEN THE COMMODITY IS NORMALLY MARKETED. NEGOTIATIONS FOR REPARATIONS ARE TAKING FORM IN CUBAN OFFERS TO SELL TOBACCO AT DISCOUNT PRICES.

2. IN ORDER OF PRIORITY, THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT IS TRYING TO OBTAIN

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

ACTION
INFO.
FERTILIZER, TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES, AND CHEMICAL PRODUCTS IN EXCHANGE FOR SUGAR ON A STRAIGHT BARTER DEAL. THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT EXPECTS A BUMPER CROP IN 1964 WHICH, IF SOLD AT THE AVERAGE WORLD PRICE OF 8 CENT A POUND (US CURRENCY), SHOULD PRODUCE ABOUT $80 MILLION DOLLARS (US) IN CREDITS.

3. FIELD COMMENT. SOURCE SAID THAT EXAMINATION OF THE CROP CONFIRMS THAT IT IS ONE OF THE BEST CUBA HAS HAD IN YEARS.

4. FIELD DISSEM STATE ECON CINCSO.

SECRET
