14-00000
104-10167-10190
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

5
12
DISPATCII
PERIERE CARD REPRODUCTIONS :: 2/wND 31.
BAMPCAN
SECRET
Chief, Western Haishore Division
Chief, Special Affairs Staff
Chief of Station, JMAVE AKR
BANH JHPALM/Operational
९
30
ラベル
PROCESSING
-
1::
A Prostene Repers for the Months of November and December 1983 for Identi
ACTION QUAна колосса
ACTION REQUIRED: FYI-
REFERENCES:. A. UTGA 12038, 24 October 1983
8.UFGA 11883, 15 October 1983 201-301754
C. UTGA 12903, 10 October 1963
OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS
fijnige tidly in a regular content
3201-30475
1. Identity was originally contacted by JHPALM Case officer in
mid-1963. The results of Identity's assessment by the JHPALH) Case
Officer yere reported in detail in Reference B.; It later developed
that Loentity was an acquaintance of AHPA-1 who was subsequently put
in contact with Identity for training and subsequent recruitment.

2. Training sessions continued between AMPAL-2 and Identity
through most of November and early December 1963. As in other newly.
recruited JMPALM assets, the agent was regularly critiqusd as to the
value of his information and was provided with regular guidance in
order to better strengthen his value to JMPALM Following is a list
of those persons with whom the subject is In contact.on a regular
"batis pr with whoa he corresponds fréquently:
05
SIT POMINICAN R
BENCE
no 20lva. Rominican Air Force colonel Pedroacet ho visited
Hiami from the Dominican Republic. BENOE plans to return to Miami in
carly 1964,
5 05
site
CUBA COS
05
no 2015: [Antonio ALLANO Honten Cuban Cuban navarapermarn now living
in the Dominican Republic who occasionally visits the Miami area.
To 2o. Retired Dominica Army Colonel Fernando CARTAGENA who
resides indMiami but who maintains regular correspondence with many
Dominican military redderer
CIT. HAIN AMIAMI ELLADA
201-32080405F
2014330804
d. Edward DENIS a Haitian exile currently residing in Misa,
who corresponda rasularly with several Haitian youth lessere who are
in opposition to Duvalier and who visit land from time to sina.
COPY
Attachments u/s/c
Identity
Distributioni
C/WMD attch PERENCE
2-C/SAS w/atton Us!
atthdim RiD/AN 7
(marime
BAR PWED
ACBER
UTGA-1363
200-120-89
• 201-301754
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
MISFILED-
14-00000
:
10
231-78
.
SECRET
09
CocrsNCIS
CA-1353
when the latter is in Pigal, and is visited by Identity frequsatly.
70-201
05.05
Maric, GORA del Caribe and Jean Louis OSSIER
Dominican newspapermen who frequently visit Kiani and are old
acquaintances of Identity.
رحمة
:
int
LADY CAMILLE Laitian diplomat who now
resides infort-au-Prince CAMILLE Lanille has known Identity for any
years. ka is now residing in returns bus plans to visit Mic
In early 1968 (See UTGA-11873).
5:
T. Identity uses several exile front groups as cover for his meet-
ings with his Klani contacts and in strengthening his position as &
trusted acquaintance in his communications with the aforementioned sub-R
sources in the Dominican Republic and Haiti.
A.
*. Identity has presented no problems of a security nature during
the period under review and no problems are foreseen at this time. Ha
knows the JMPALM Case Officer only as "Jorge" and meats regularly with
AMPAL-1) under secure conditions.
5. Subject has not yet been granted a JMPALM cryptónys as vas
requested in reference C which transmitted Identity's PRQ Part II to
Beadquarters. RUDOLPH RSABOUN 201-734802 CST: HAITI
nephew of Bergs Francis (201-739703); Suty is
Hritial Consul in Miani, Ibrida
PRODUCTION
6. During the months of nonths of November and December Identity is credited
with having provided JHPALM with the following intelligence reports:
COLL
UFG 4045
ン
"Visit to the Dominican Republic by
Unidentified Representative of Venezuelan
President Romulo Betancourt.
UFG 4046
"Political Activities Against the Civilian
Junta in the Dominican Pepublic"
UFG 4169
Permission for the Movimiento Democrata
Cristiano (HDC) to Establish a Cuban Exile
Dasa in Venezuela" and "Involvement of
Former Cuban President Carlos Prio Socarras
with the HDC."
eplans of the Donintoan Triumvirats to Appoint
General Elias Wessin y Wesain to the Post
UTG 4187
:
of Minister of Har."
4
"Alleged Plans for a Military Coup d'stát
in Venezuela."
UPO 4288
070 4288
@plans of Dominican Military Leaders to
Sabotage the San Isidro Air Base."
UFO 4268
Triumvirete by the 6.8.9
070 4264
"Attempts of the 19th of June Hovenezt to
Doger Recognition of the Daainioan
Cuban Exiio Flans to set up anti-Communtet
Radio and Television Programs in the
Dominican Republic.
CODE
Hoverber 1998 Balary
December lies Salary
• Curletuss Bonus
RS
previous sertion,
8178.00
200.00
25.09
Fotel
6390,00
SECANT
2.
contwvse
14-00000
1
SECRET
UTGA-22503
ン
FUTURE PLANS
8. Identity will continue to be rat by AMPAL-1 until 1 March 1888
when his productca, will be further evaluated and he will be turned
over to ATY-1 for handling ca a permanent basis. It will be
noted that AGROTHY-1 who was recruited for a job as JHPALM principal
agent to tan vara recently acquired assets, is now undergoing
training by APAL-l in an effort to better groom this agent for the
principal agent job.
END OF DISPATCH
0
201301754
nove sermen
SECRET
CONTINUED
14-00000
リン
1
"
04
SECRET
Separate Cover Attachment to UTGA 13543
IDENTITY: Pedro VALDIVIA) 201301754 CIT. DOMINICAN REPUBLIC?
AmiAmi, FLORIDA Re:
IN miami, FLORIDA.
: contact of.
of auby
Encepto uran 135Y SECRET
21 Jan 64 201-301754
