120404333
104-10433-10212
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
A
1319
13-00000
319
APPEALS REVIEW FORM
Tab 1-52 contains Dispatch UFGA-29877 dated 11 Agr. 1968.
() Previously denied in toto under exemption(s)
of recommended but not regret fy IPS
Segregable portions previously released, excised portions exempted
under (6)(1) (6) (2) (1)(3) of FOIA
() Located during the DDO appeals review.
() Referred to DDO for review by
Further description, identification, comments, and/or referrals, etc.

I RECOMMEND:
( ) Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption(s)
() ADD exemption(s)
() DROP exemption(s)
of
() Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions
exempted under
() ADD exemption(s)
() DROP exemption(s)
of
Release additional information with excised portions exempted under
(b) (1) (5) (3) of FoiA
() Deny document in toto under exemption(s)
:
of
(Release a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under
of
The exemptions cited above are being claimed to protect the following:
() Information from a foreign liaison service
() Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship
() Information which would/could identify the source
() Information pertaining to a source
() Information pertaining to intelligence methods
Location of CIA overseas installation
Location of unacknowledged domestic installation
Name of CIA employee
) File number
Pseudonym
Cryptonyms
Internal organizational data
() Name of FBI agent
) FBI file number
) Privacy of other individual
() OTHER

COMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

During the DDO classification review, this document which was marked
SECRET
IS
1) maintained
(classified to
}
declassified
desensitized
was:
A downgraded to confidential

E2 INPDE
CL. BY O
13-00000

TELEPOUCH
DISP NO
FILE NO - NONE

وتو
DATE - QQ APRIL 1968

INDEXING - NONE

MICROFILM - NONE
MICROFILMED
APR 15 1968
DOC. MICPO, SER.
TO - CHIEF

INFO - CHIEF CHIEF,

FROM - CHIEF
SUBJECT - SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREATMENT OF THE DEATH OF
MARTIN LUTHER KING, TAI APRIL 1968

THE FOLLOWING SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA COVERAGE OF THE MARTIN
LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION-DURING THE PERIOD 5-8 APRIL HAS BEEN
PREPARED BY THE

AM GRANMA HAVANA DAILY NEWSPAPER OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF
5
CUBA, APRIL 68, FRONT PAGE "LAST MINUTE NEWS - MARTIN LUTHER
KING ASSASSINATED IN MEMPHIS, U.S.A. ACCORDING TO FIRST REPORTS,
LUTHER KING HAS BEEN SHOT BY A 'WHITE WELL-DRESSED YOUNG MALE..

2. WAT

Y GRANMA, I APRIL, FRONT PAGE **TWENTY-SEVEN PERSONS HAVE
BEEN KILLED IN THE U.S. AS A RESULT OF THE FIGHTING WHICH HAS BEEN
GOING ON SINCE THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING. IN WASHING-
TON ALONE THERE ARE 750 WOUNDED AND 4,186 PERSONS ARRESTED. SNIPERS
CONTINUE TO BE ACTIVE IN DIFFERENT CITIES IN THE U.S. THE WHITE
HOUSE AND THE CAPITOL ARE UNDER HEAVY GUARD.

TISON
:
/FULL INFORMATION
AFP

ER CRANKA, XAPRIL, LAST PAGE TO RICHMOND TO LIBERATE RAP
BROWN
/WASHINGTON, APRIL, ASSOCIATED FRENCH PRESS-
FRENCH NEWS AGENCY AYNX LEAFLETS WERE DISTRIBUTED HERE THIS MORNING,
AFP
URGING THE WEGRO PEOPLE OF WASHINGTON TO GO TO RICHMOND TO LIBERATE
RAP BROWN. JITHE LEAFLETS CALLED ON THE NEGROES TO FORM A MOTOR-
CADE AND LEAVE FOR RICHMOND TOMORROW, MONDAY
TELE POUCH
PAGE ONE
APPROVED FOR RELEASE
Dald 6 or 78
319
F

13-00000
As
TELE POUCH PAGE TWO
an
GRANMA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE ARTICLE ENTITLED "PRINCIPAL
JEGRO ORGANIZATIONS IN THE U.S.'', BY JUANA CARRASCO. THE ARTICLE
DAYS THAT NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS ARE DIVIDED INTO TWO GROUPS - THE
'IOLENT ONES AND THE NON-VIOLENT ONES. IT MENTIONS THE FOLLOWING
MONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCATE THE USE OF VIOLENCE CONGRESS OF RACIAL
QUALITY/CORE/, STUDENT NON-VIOLENT COORDINATING COMMITTEE /SNCC/,
BLACK MUSLIMS, BLACK PANTHER PARTY, BLACKSTONE RANGERS, THE ALERT
PATROL, REVOLUTIONARY ACTION MOVEMENT /RAM/, THE BLACK GUARDS, THE
EACONS, AND THE U.S.. THE FOLLOWING NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS ARE
ENTIONED AMONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCATE NON-VIOLENCE NATIONAL ASSO-
IATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE NAACP/, NATIONAL
URBAN LEAGUE, AND THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE
SCLC/.
8
IM GRANMA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE JJATTEMPTS ARE BING MADE TO
:
LAME CARMICHAEL FOR THE OUTBREAK OF RACIAL VIOLENCE IN THE U.S.."
८,
K
XM GRANMA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE RACIAL CLASHES BETWEEN NEGRO
ND WHITE AMERICAN SOLDIERS IN JAPAN.**
7.
8
GRANMA, ΓAPRIL, LAST PAGE THE AMERICAN NEGRO PEOPLE...
IN GRANMA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE ''MARTYRS OF THE NEGRO
TRUGGLE.
१.
732
OM RADIO LIBERACION AND RADIO PROGRESO HAVANA RADIO STATIONS/,
APRIL, UWP A.M. AND 12 NOON THE CHIEF OF THE MISSION TO CUBA
F THE SOUTH VIETNAMESE NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT HAS SENT A MESSAGE
O AFRO-AMERICANS ON THE ASSASSINATION OF THE LEADER, MARTIN LUTHER
ING. THIS MESSAGE SAYS THAT THE CRIME WHICH WAS COMMITTED AGAINST
ARTIN LUTHER KING UNMASKS THE EVIL FACE OF THE RULERS AND RACISTS
F THE UNITED STATES. THE MESSAGE OF THE VIETNAMESE MISSION IN
AVANA ENDS BY SAYING THAT, WITH THE ASSASSINATION OF LUTHER KING,
LE THAT HAS BEEN ACCOMPLISHED BY THE RULERS OF THE UNITED STATES
'S TO POUR OIL ONTO THE FLAMES OF THE STRUGGLE OF AFRO-AMERICANS,
TELE POUCH
PAGE TWO
13-00000

TELEPOUCH PAGE THREE

ID THAT THESE FLAMES ARE RISING VIOLENTLY TO PUT AN END TO ALL THE
PPRESSION AND INJUSTICE WHICH IS FOUND IN THE UNITED STATES, WHICH
INDERS THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE MILLIONS OF PEOPLE IN THE ENTIRE
JUNTRY.**

10. 5
OP RADIO LIBERACION, TAPRIL, REP P.M. STOKELY CARMICHAEL,
EADER OF BLACK POWER, SAID SWE NEGROES MUST ARM OURSELVES WITH
IFLES AND PISTOLS AND LAUNCH AN ASSAULT ON THE STREETS OF THE
ITIES OF THE UNITED STATES IN REPRISAL FOR KING'S ASSASSINATION.
ARMICHAEL PREDICTED THAT THERE WILL BE EXECUTIONS IN THE STREETS AS
RESULT OF KING'S ASSASSINATION. HE ALSO PREDICTED THAT THE
IOLENCE WHICH HAS BEEN UNLEASHED BY NEGROES AS A RESULT OF KING'S
EATH WILL BE PALE AS COMPARED TO WHAT WILL HAPPEN IN AMERICAN
ITIES.''

11、 5
DOM RADIO HABANA, I APRIL, P.M.A JOHIS KING'S DEATH SHOWS
:
NCE AGAIN THAT THE EXPLOITED MASSES CAN ONLY ANSWER REACTIONARY
IOLENCE WITH REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE.

12. 550.
QWM RADIO PROGRESO, I APRIL, TIP P.M. A JICARMICHAEL SAID
URING A TELEPHONE INTERVIEW THAT A SERIOUS MISTAKE HAS BEEN MADE
NASSASSINAT ING DR, KING BECAUSE HE HAD BEEN THE LEADER OF A MOVE.....
ENT WHICH URGED THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES NOT TO BURN
HE CITIES, NOT TO COMMIT ACTS OF VIOLENCE. THIS MEANS THAT IT WILL
::
E NECESSARY TO START AN ALL-OUT REVOLUTION, CARMICHAEL ADDED
SERIOUS INCIDENTS HAVE TAKEN PLACE IN 35 CITIES WHERE THERE HAVE
EEN FIRES, SHOOTING, FIGHTING, AND DEATHS AS A RESULT OF THE CRIME
COMMITTED AGAINST DR. KING. NATURALLY, OTHER SIMILAR THINGS WILL
AKE PLACE. GUERRILLA WARFARE WILL RAPIDLY SPREAD THROUGH THE CITIES.
ECAUSE IT IS ALREADY EVIDENT THAT WE CANNOT OPENLY REBEL AGAINST
THE POLICE..
STOKELY CARMICHAEL ENDED THE INTERVIEW BY SENDING
AFFECTIONATE REGARDS TO THE REVOLUTIONARY CUBAN PEOPLE AND THEIR
EADER, FIDEL CASTRO RUZ."
TELE POUCH
PAGE THREE
}
13-00000

TELE POUCH رت
PAGE FOUR
7
13. RADIO HABANA, APRIL, P.M.JJJUAN MARI/ BRAS,
SECRETARY-GENERAL OF THE MOVEMENT FOR THE INDEPENDENCE OF PUERTO
RICO, MADE THE FOLLOWING STATEMENTS IN A LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE
INTERVIEW - ADR. LUTHER KING'S ASSASSINATION WILL UNDOUBTEDLY PRE-
CIPITATE THE REBELLION OF THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES
AGAINST ALL THE ABUSES OF WHICH THEY HAVE BEEN THE OBJECT.

14.
7.
ORM RADIO HABANA, 5 APRIL, P.M. A SITHE EXECUTIVE SECRETARIAT
OF THE ASIAN, AFRICAN, AND LATIN AMERICAN PEOPLES SOLIDARITY ORGANI-
CATION /AALAPSO/ SENT A MESSAGE OF CONDOLENCE TO THE SNCC ON THE
ASSASSINATION OF LUTHER KING.

''THE AALAPSO'S MESSAGE TO THE
AMERICAN PACIFIST ORGANIZATION ENDS AS FOLLOWS A SWE BEG YOU TO
EXPRESS TO THE FAMILY OF MARTIN LUTHER KING AND TO ALL AFRO-AMERICANS
:
DUR DEEPEST SORROW OVER HIS DEATH, OUR DECISION TO SUPPORT YOUR
STRUGGLE, AND OUR DEEP CONVICTION THAT THIS TERRIBLE CRIME--WHICH
SHOWS US THAT ARMED REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE IS THE ONLY WAY OF ACHIEV-
ING GENUINE LIBERATION--WILL HELP. STRENGTHEN THE STRUGGLE OF THE
FRO-AMERICAN PEOPLE WHICH IS ALREADY AIMED IN THE DIRECTION OF A
OTAL CONFRONTATION...

15.
۱۱
QFM RADIO HABANA, T'APRIL, P.M. A JJAGUSTIN. /GONZALEZ/
:
ARTINEZ, BISHOP OF THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH OF CUBA, MADE THE FOLLOWING
STATEMENTS IN A SPECIAL INTERVIEW - MAY THE TRAGIC DISAPPEARANCE
F THIS GREAT LEADER AT LEAST HELP TO SPEED UP THE ARRIVAL OF THE DAY
HEN EVERY MAN IN HIS NATION AND IN ALL OTHER NATIONS WILL BE TREATED
ITH THE RESPECT WHICH IS DUE TO THEM AS HUMAN BEINGS.
16-
!!
QXM RADIO HABANA, APRIL, P.M. A JJREVEREND RAFAEL PASTOR,
FTHE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH IN LUYANO, HAVANA, MADE THE FOLLOWING
TATEMENTS IN A SPECIAL INTERVIEW - THIS BROTHERS, THE AMERICAN
EGROES, WILL LEARN MUCH FROM HIS DEATH. WE CAN ALMOST ASSURE THAT
HEY, THE AMERICAN NEGROES WHOSE DIGNITY AND DECORUM HAS BEEN
RUSHED, WILL COME BACK TO LIFE AFTER CENTURIES OF LETHARGY AND
TELE POUCH PAGE FOUR
)
13-00000

TELE POUCH
PAGE FIVE

WILL RISE FROM THE IR GRAVES AND FORM AN INVINCIBLE ARMY۰۰
17. 5
い
QUN RADIO LIBERACION, APRIL, YP.M. A EDITORIAL COMMENTS
CRITICIZING THE NON-VIOLENT LINE WHICH WAS ADVOCATED BY LUTHER KING,
11
SAYING THAT THIS LINE WAS INOPERATIVE. JOMARTIN LUTHER KING DID NOT
PREACH VIOLENCE BUT HE WAS THE VICTIM OF VIOLENCE. HE DID NOT
JNLEASH VIOLENCE BUT VIOLENCE MOWED HIM DOWN...
is.
530
کا
OIN RADIO HABANA, APRIL 68, TP P.M. & JOHNSON POSTPONED
IIS TRIP. HE CALLED THE CIVIL RIGHTS LEADERS--WHO WERE MORE OR
LESS UNDER CONTROL--TO GO TO THE WHITE HOUSE. JOHNSON APPEARED ON
ELEVISION. HE EXPRESSED HIS ANGUISH AND HIS SORROW. HE MADE
INSPIRED COMMENTS ABOUT MARTIN LUTHER KING... THESE ACTIONS AND THESE
JORDS HIDE FEAR OVER THE WAVE OF JUST. VIOLENCE WHICH IS STARTING TO
:
J
SPREAD THROUGH THE UNITED STATES.." JAT A TIME WHEN COMPLEX INTER-
NATIONAL NEGOTIATIONS MIGHT BE UNDERWAY, UNDER DIFFICULT CONDITIONS,
THIS NEW CRIME WIDENS THE CHASM WHICH DIVIDES THE PEOPLE OF THE
UNITED STATES AND INCITES THE PEOPLE TO PROMOTE DISTURBANCES WHOSE
FAR-REACHING EFFECTS ARE HARD TO PREDICT.* JSTHE ASSASSINATION OF
MARTIN LUTHER KING CONFIRMS THAT THE VIOLENCE OF IMPERIALIST RACISTS
IS ONLY ANSWERED EFFECT IVELY WITH THE VIOLENCE OF THE REVOLUTIONARY
STRUGGLE...

DISTRIBUTION
JIA TELEPOUCH

3 A

A
2 A

TELEPOUCH PAGE FIVE

3T
13-00000
TELE POUCH
DISP NO
FILE NO - NONE
وتو
DATE - GO APRIL 1968

TO -

INFO -

FROM -
MICROFILMED
APR 15 1968
DOC. MICRO. SER.
SUBJECT - SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREATMENT OF THE DEATH OF
MARTIN LUTHER KING, TAI APRIL 1968

THE FOLLOWING SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA COVERAGE OF THE MARTIN
LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION DURING THE PERIOD 5-8 APRIL HAS BEEN
PREPARED

"GM GRANMA HAVANA DAILY NEWSPAPER OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF
5
CUBA, APRIL 68, FRONT PAGE - "LAST MINUTE NEWS - MARTIN LUTHER
KING ASSASSINATED IN MEMPHIS, U.S.A. ACCORDING TO FIRST REPORTS,
LUTHER KING HAS BEEN SHOT BY A 'WHITE WELL-DRESSED YOUNG MALE.
2.
४
en
WAY GRANMA, I APRIL, FRONT PAGE **TWENTY-SEVEN PERSONS HAVE
BEEN KILLED IN THE U.S. AS A RESULT OF THE FIGHTING WHICH HAS BEEN
GOING ON SINCE THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING. IN WASHING-
TON ALONE THERE ARE 750 WOUNDED AND 4,186 PERSONS ARRESTED. SNIPERS
CONTINUE TO BE ACTIVE IN DIFFERENT CITIES IN THE U.S. THE WHITE
HOUSE AND THE CAPITOL ARE UNDER HEAVY GUARD.'' /FULL INFORMATION
GIVEN./

3
EM GRANYA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE ''TO RICHMOND TO LIBERATE RAP
7.
BROWN. **/WASHINGTON, APRIL, ASSOCIATED FRENCH PRESS AFP,
FRENCH NEWS AGENCY AMX LEAFLETS WERE DISTRIBUTED HERE THIS MORNING,
URGING THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF WASHINGTON TO GO TO RICHMOND TO LIBERATE
RAP BROWN." //THE LEAFLETS CALLED ON THE NEGROES TO FORM A MOTOR -
CADE AND LEAVE FOR RICHMOND TOMORROW, MONDAY.””
TELE POUCH
PAGE ONE

Previserslag
A APPOGAED FOR PEO
Date
570
:
13-00000
TELE POUCH PAGE TWO
4. GRANMA, APRIL, LAST PAGE ARTICLE ENTITLED "PRINCIPAL
NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS IN THE U.S.'', BY JUANA CARRASCO. THE ARTICLE
SAYS THAT NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS ARE DIVIDED INTO TWO GROUPS THE
VIOLENT ONES AND THE NON-VIOLENT ONES. IT MENTIONS THE FOLLOWING
AMONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCATE THE USE OF VIOLENCE CONGRESS OF RACIAL
EQUALITY/CORE/, STUDENT NON-VIOLENT COORDINATING COMMITTEE /SNCC/,
BLACK MUSLIMS, BLACK PANTHER PARTY, BLACKSTONE RANGERS, THE ALERT
PATROL, REVOLUTIONARY ACTION MOVEMENT /RAM/, THE BLACK GUARDS, THE
DEACONS, AND THE U.S.''. THE FOLLOWING NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS ARE
MENTIONED ANONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCATE NON-VIOLENCE NATIONAL ASSO-
CIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE/NAACP, NATIONAL
URBAN LEAGUE, AND THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE
/SCLC/.

5. ४
IN GRANMA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE SATTEMPTS ARE BING MADE TO
BLAME CARMICHAEL FOR THE OUTBREAK OF RACIAL VIOLENCE IN THE U.S.
با

5
IT GRAMMA, APRIL, LAST PAGE RACIAL CLASHES BETWEEN NEGRO
AND WHITE AMERICAN SOLDIERS IN JAPAN.."
7.
8
JU GRANMA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE THE AMERICAN NEGRO PEOPLE.**
8
IW GRANMA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE ''MARTYRS OF THE NEGRO
STRUGGLE...

9.

11
RADIO LIBERACION AND RADIO PROGRESO /HAVANA RADIO STATIONS/,
720
6 APRIL, UWP A.N. AND 12 NOON **THE CHIEF OF THE MISSION TO CUBA
OF THE SOUTH VIETNAMESE NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT HAS SENT A MESSAGE
TO AFRO-AMERICANS ON THE ASSASSINATION OF THE LEADER, MARTIN LUTHER
KING. THIS MESSAGE SAYS THAT THE CRIME WHICH WAS COMMITTED AGAINST
MARTIN LUTHER KING UNMASKS THE EVIL FACE OF THE RULERS AND RACISTS
OF THE UNITED STATES.*" **THE MESSAGE OF THE VIETNAMESE MISSION IN
HAVANA ENDS BY SAYING THAT, WITH THE ASSASSINATION OF LUTHER KING,
ALL THAT HAS BEEN ACCOMPLISHED BY THE RULERS OF THE UNITED STATES
IS TO POUR OIL ONTO THE FLAMES OF THE STRUGGLE OF AFRO-AMERICANS,
TELEPOUCH
PAGE TWO
13-00000

TELEPOUCH PAGE THREE

AND THAT THESE FLAXES ARE RISING VIOLENTLY TO PUT AN END TO ALL THE
OPPRESSION AND INJUSTICE WHICH IS FOUND IN THE UNITED STATES, WHICH
HINDERS THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE MILLIONS OF PEOPLE IN THE ENTIRE
COUNTRY...

100 5
PRADIO LIBERACION, X APRIL, REP P.M. ℵ STOKELY CARMICHAEL,
LEADER OF BLACK POWER, SAID AWE NEGROES MUST ARM OURSELVES WITH
RIFLES AND PISTOLS AND LAUNCH AN ASSAULT ON THE STREETS OF THE
CITIES OF THE UNITED STATES IN REPRISAL FOR KING'S ASSASSINATION."
CARMICHAEL PREDICTED THAT THERE WILL BE EXECUTIONS IN THE STREETS AS
A RESULT OF KING'S ASSASSINATION. HE ALSO PREDICTED THAT THE
VIOLENCE WHICH HAS BEEN UNLEASHED BY NEGROES AS A RESULT OF KING'S
DEATH WILL BE PALE AS COMPARED TO WHAT WILL HAPPEN IN AMERICAN
CITIES.'

11、 5
کی
11
AGM RADIO HABANA, X APRIL, XP.M. A JOHIS KING'S/ DEATH SHOWS
:
ONCE AGAIN THAT THE EXPLOITED MASSES CAN ONLY ANSWER REACTIONARY
VIOLENCE WITH REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE.."

12, 5
550
QPIT RADIO PROGRESO, X APRIL, I P.M. A JICARMICHAEL SAID
DURING A TELEPHONE INTERVIEW THAT A SERIOUS MISTAKE HAS BEEN MADE
IN ASSASSINATING DR. KING BECAUSE HE HAD BEEN THE LEADER OF A MOVE-
MENT WHICH URGED THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES NOT TO BURN
THE CITIES, NOT TO COMMIT ACTS OF VIOLENCE. THIS MEANS THAT IT WILL
:
:
BE NECESSARY TO START AN ALL-CUT REVOLUTION." CARMICHAEL ADDED
SERIOUS INCIDENTS HAVE TAKEN PLACE IN 35 CITIES WHERE THERE HAVE
BEEN FIRES, SHOOTING, FIGHTING, AND DEATHS AS A RESULT OF THE CRIME
COMMITTED AGAINST DR. KING. NATURALLY, OTHER SIMILAR THINGS WILL
TAKE PLACE. GUERRILLA WARFARE WILL RAPIDLY SPREAD THROUGH THE CITIES
BECAUSE IT IS ALREADY EVIDENT THAT WE CANNOT OPENLY REBEL AGAINST
THE POLICE.
STOKELY CARMICHAEL ENDED THE INTERVIEW BY SENDING
AFFECTIONATE REGARDS TO THE REVOLUTIONARY CUBAN PEOPLE AND THEIR
EADER, FIDEL CASTRO RUZ.**
TELEPOUCH
PAGE THREE
13-00000

TELE POUCH PAGE FOUR

13. RADIO HABANA, X APRIL, P.M.کو کم کر JUAN MARI/ BRAS,
SECRETARY-GENERAL OF THE MOVEMENT. FOR THE INDEPENDENCE OF PUERTO
RICO, MADE THE FOLLOWING STATEMENTS IN A LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE
INTERVIEW ADR. LUTHER KING'S ASSASSINATION WILL UNDOUBTEDLY PRE-
CIPITATE THE REBELLION OF THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES
AGAINST ALL THE ABUSES OF WHICH THEY HAVE BEEN THE OBJECT.

14.
7
ORM RADIO HABANA, 5 APRIL, P.M. A THE EXECUTIVE SECRETARIAT
OF THE ASIAN, AFRICAN, AND LATIN AMERICAN PEOPLES SOLIDARITY ORGANI-
ZATION /AALAPSO/ SENT A MESSAGE OF CONDOLENCE TO THE SNCC ON THE
SSASSINATION OF LUTHER KING.." **THE AALAPSO'S MESSAGE TO THE
MERICAN PACIFIST ORGANIZATION ENDS AS FOLLOWS A SWE BEG YOU TO
XPRESS TO THE FAMILY OF MARTIN LUTHER KING AND TO ALL AFRO-AMERICANS
OUR DEEPEST SORROW OVER HIS DEATH OUR DECISION TO SUPPORT YOUR
STRUGGLE, AND OUR DEEP CONVICTION THAT THIS TERRIBLE CRIME--WHICH
SHOWS US THAT ARMED REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE IS THE ONLY WAY OF ACHIEV-
:
ING GENUINE LIBERATION--WILL HELP STRENGTHEN THE STRUGGLE OF THE
FRO-AMERICAN PEOPLE WHICH IS ALREADY AIMED IN THE DIRECTION OF A
TOTAL CONFRONTATION.

15.
"
5
7.
1
QPIT RADIO HABANA, APRIL, P.M. A JJAGUSTIN /GONZALEZ /
• MARTINEZ, BISHOP OF THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH OF CUBA, MADE THE FOLLOWING
STATEMENTS IN A SPECIAL INTERVIEW MAY THE TRAGIC DISAPPEARANCE
F THIS GREAT LEADER AT LEAST HELP TO SPEED UP THE ARRIVAL OF THE DAY
HEN EVERY MAN IN HIS NATION AND IN ALL OTHER NATIONS WILL BE TREATED
ITH THE RESPECT WHICH IS DUE TO THEM AS HUNAN BEINGS. J

16
7
11.
RADIO HABANA, Y APRIL, P.M. A JJREVEREND RAFAEL PASTOR,
• OF THE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH IN LUYANO, HAVANA, MADE THE FOLLOWING
TATEMENTS IN A SPECIAL INTERVIEW SHIS BROTHERS, THE AMERICAN
EGROES, WILL LEARN MUCH FRON HIS DEATH. WE CAN ALMOST ASSURE THAT
HEY, THE AMERICAN NEGROES WHOSE DIGNITY AND DECORUM HAS BEEN
RUSHE WILL COME BACK TO LIFE AFTER CENTURIES OF LETHARGY AND
TELEPOUCH
PAGE FOUR
13-00000

TELE POUCH PAGE FIVE
WILL RISE FROM THEIR CRAVES AND FORM AN INVINCIBLE ARMY
17. 5
AUM RADIO LIBERACION, APRIL, P.M. A EDITORIAL COMMENTS
CRITICIZING THE NON-VIOLENT LINE WHICH WAS ADVOCATED BY LUTHER KING,
SAYING THAT THIS LINE WAS INOPERATIVE. MARTIN LUTHER KING DID NOT
11
PREACH VIOLENCE BUT HE WAS THE VICTIM OF VIOLENCE. HE DID NOT
UNLEASH VIOLENCE BUT VIOLENCE MOWED HIM DOWN.."
१४.
کیا
530
GIM RADIO HABANA, APRIL 68, TEP P.M. A "JOHNSON POSTPONED
HIS TRIP. HE CALLED THE CIVIL RIGHTS LEADERS--WHO WERE MORE OR
LESS UNDER CONTROL--TO GO TO THE WHITE HOUSE. JOHNSON APPEARED ON
TELEVISION. HE EXPRESSED HIS ANGUISH AND HIS SORROW. HE MADE
11
INSPIRED COMMENTS ABOUT MARTIN LUTHER KING. THESE ACTIONS AND THESE
WORDS HIDE FEAR OVER THE WAVE OF JUST VIOLENCE WHICH IS STARTING TO
SPREAD THROUGH THE UNITED STATES. AT A TIME WHEN COMPLEX INTER-
NATIONAL NEGOTIATIONS MIGHT BE UNDERWAY, UNDER DIFFICULT CONDITIONS,
THIS NEW CRIME WIDENS THE CHASM WHICH DIVIDES THE PEOPLE OF THE
UNITED STATES AND INCITES THE PEOPLE TO PROMOTE DISTURBANCES WHOSE
FAR-REACHING EFFECTS ARE HARD TO PREDICT." THE ASSASSINATION OF
MARTIN LUTHER KING CONFIRMS THAT THE VIOLENCE OF IMPERIALIST RACISTS
IS ONLY ANSWERED EFFECTIVELY WITH THE VIOLENCE OF THE REVOLUTIONARY
STRUGGLE.**

DISTRIBUTION
VIA TELEPOUCH

3 A

A
2 A

TELEPOUCH PAGE FIVE
3T
13-00000

وتو
CANFIDENTIAL
SECRET TELEPOUCH
DISP NO UFGA-29877

FILE NO NONE
MICROFILMED
APR 15 1968
DOC. MICPO, SER.
//
DATE QQ APRIL 1968

INDEXING NONE

MICR OF ILM NONE

TO CHIEF, WH DIVISION

INFO CHIEF, WH/COG CHIEF, WOLIME

FROM - CHIEF OF STATION, JMWAVE
SUBJECT - O SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREATMENT OF THE DEATH OF
MARTIN LUTHER KING, TAI APRIL 1968.

THE FOLLOWING SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA COVERAGE OF THE MARTIN
LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION DURING THE PERIOD 5-8 APRIL HAS BEEN
PREPARED BY THE AM OT S-
:
OM GRANMA HAVANA DAILY NEWSPAPER OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF
CUBA, APRIL 68, FRONT PAGE '"LAST MINUTE NEWS MARTIN LUTHER
KING ASSASSINATED IN MEMPHIS, U.S.A. ACCORDING TO FIRST REPORTS,
LUTHER KING HAS BEEN SHOT BY A 'WHITE WELL-DRESSED YOUNG MALE.**

2.
WM GRANMA, I APRIL, FRONT PAGE
**TWENTY-SEVEN PERSONS HAVE
BEEN KILLED IN THE U.S. AS A RESULT OF THE FIGHTING WHICH HAS BEEN
GOING ON SINCE THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING. IN WASHING-
TON ALONE THERE ARE 750 WOUNDED AND 4,186 PERSONS ARRESTED.
SNIPERS
CONTINUE TO BE ACTIVE IN DIFFERENT CITIES IN THE U.S. THE WHITE
HOUSE AND THE CAPITOL ARE. UNDER HEAVY GUARD. /FULL INFORMATION

3 TIICI

EM GRANMA, X APRIL, LAST PAGE **TO RICHMOND TO LIBERATE RAP
7.
AFP,
BROWN. **/WASHINGTON, APRIL, ASSOCIATED FRENCH PRESS
FRENCH NEWS AGENCY AMX LEAFLETS WERE DISTRIBUTED HERE THIS MORNING,
URGING THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF WASHINGTON TO GO TO RICHMOND TO LIBERATE
RAP BROWN." // THE LEAFLETS CALLED ON THE NEGROES TO FORM A MOTOR-
CADE AND LEAVE FOR RICHMOND TOMORROW, MONDAY...
TELE POUCH
PAGE ONE

CONFIDENTIAL
Downgraded to
by authority of 20226000/2913
date
CLASSIFICATION REVIEW
CONDUCTED ON 3 mar 78
2 INPDET CL BY 075604
FULL TEXT COPY -- DO NOT RELEASE
13-00000

ONFIDENTIAL
TELE POUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE TWO
کم
GRANMA I APRIL, LAST PAGE ARTICLE ENTITLED "PRINCIPAL
EGRO ORGANIZATIONS IN THE U.S., BY JUANA CARRASCO. THE ARTICLE
AYS THAT NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS ARE DIVIDED INTO TWO GROUPS THE
IOLENT ONES AND THE NON-VIOLENT ONES. IT MENTIONS THE FOLLOWING
TONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCATE THE USE OF VIOLENCE CONGRESS OF RACIAL
QUALITY/CORE/, STUDENT NON-VIOLENT COORDINATING COMMITTEE /SNCC/,
LACK MUSLIMS, BLACK PANTHER PARTY, BLACKSTONE RANGERS, THE ALERT
ATROL, REVOLUTIONARY ACTION MOVEMENT /RAM/, THE BLACK GUARDS, THE
EACONS, AND THE U.S.''. THE FOLLOWING NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS ARE
ENTIONED AMONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCATE NON-VIOLENCE NATIONAL ASSO-
IATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE/NAACP/, NATIONAL
RBAN LEAGUE, AND THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE
SCLC/.

IM GRANMA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE SATTEMPTS ARE BING MADE TO
:
LAME CARMICHAEL FOR THE OUTBREAK OF RACIAL VIOLENCE IN THE U.S...
८.

YM GRANMA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE RACIAL CLASHES BETWEEN NEGRO
ND WHITE AMERICAN SOLDIERS IN JAPAN.**
7.
8
UM GRANMA, ΓAPRIL, LAST PAGE THE AMERICAN NEGRO PEOPLE...
IPT GRANMA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE ''MARTYRS OF THE NEGRO
STRUGGLE.

9.

11
RADIO LIBERACION AND RADIO PROGRESO /HAVANA RADIO STATIONS/,
702
APRIL, UWP A.N. AND 12 NOON - THE CHIEF OF THE MISSION TO CUBA
IF THE SOUTH VIETNAMESE NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT HAS SENT A MESSAGE
O AFRO-AMERICANS ON THE ASSASSINATION OF THE LEADER, MARTIN LUTHER
(ING. THIS MESSAGE SAYS THAT THE CRIME WHICH WAS COMMITTED AGAINST
ARTIN LUTHER KING UNMASKS THE EVIL FACE OF THE RULERS AND RACISTS
OF THE UNITED STATES."" **THE MESSAGE OF THE VIETNAMESE MISSION IN
(AVANA ENDS BY SAYING THAT, WITH THE ASSASSINATION OF LUTHER KING,
ALL THAT HAS BEEN ACCOMPLISHED BY THE RULERS OF THE UNITED STATES
'S TO POUR OIL ONTO THE FLAMES OF THE STRUGGLE OF AFRO-AMERICANS,
CT TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE TWO
CONFIDENTIAL
13-00000
ECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE THREE
AND THAT THESE FLAMES ARE RISING VIOLENTLY TO PUT AN END TO ALL THE
OPPRESSION AND INJUSTICE WHICH IS FOUND IN THE UNITED STATES, WHICH
HINDERS THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE MILLIONS OF PEOPLE IN THE ENTIRE
COUNTRY.

10. 5
QP RADIO LIBERACION, APRIL, REP P.M. JOSTOKELY CARMICHAEL,
LEADER OF BLACK POWER, SAID WE NEGROES MUST ARM OURSELVES WITH
RIFLES AND PISTOLS AND LAUNCH AN ASSAULT ON THE STREETS OF THE
CITIES OF THE UNITED STATES IN REPRISAL FOR KING'S ASSASSINATION."
CARMICHAEL PREDICTED THAT THERE WILL BE EXECUTIONS IN THE STREETS AS
A RESULT OF KING'S ASSASSINATION. HE ALSO PREDICTED THAT THE
VIOLENCE WHICH HAS BEEN UNLEASHED BY NEGROES AS A RESULT OF KING'S
DEATH WILL BE PALE AS COMPARED TO WHAT WILL HAPPEN IN AMERICAN
CITIES.'

11、 5
کی
11
GEM RADIO HABANA, X APRIL, P.M. A JÓHIS KING'S/ DEATH SHOWS
:
ONCE AGAIN THAT THE EXPLOITED MASSES CAN ONLY ANSWER REACTIONARY
VIOLENCE WITH REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE.

12, 550

QWM RADIO PROGRESO, I APRIL, P.M. A JICARMICHAEL SAID
DURING A TELEPHONE INTERVIEW THAT A SERIOUS MISTAKE HAS BEEN MADE
IN ASSASSINATING DR. KING BECAUSE HE HAD BEEN THE LEADER OF A MOVE-
TENT WHICH URGED THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES NOT TO BURN
THE CITIES, NOT TO COMMIT ACTS OF VIOLENCE. THIS MEANS THAT IT WILL
:
:
BE NECESSARY TO START AN ALL-OUT REVOLUTION. CARMICHAEL ADDED
SERIOUS INCIDENTS HAVE TAKEN PLACE IN 35 CITIES WHERE THERE HAVE
BEEN FIRES, SHOOTING, FIGHTING, AND DEATHS AS A RESULT OF THE CRIME
COMMITTED AGAINST DR. KING. NATURALLY, OTHER SIMILAR THINGS WILL
AKE PLACE. GUERRILLA WARFARE WILL RAPIDLY SPREAD THROUGH THE CITIES
BECAUSE IT IS ALREADY EVIDENT THAT WE CANNOT OPENLY REBEL AGAINST
HE POLICE.
STOKELY CARMICHAEL ENDED THE INTERVIEW BY SENDING
AFFECTIONATE REGARDS TO THE REVOLUTIONARY CUBAN PEOPLE AND THEIR
EADER, FIDEL CASTRO RUZ...
TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE THREE
13-00000

TELE POUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE FOUR

13. RADIO HABANA, I APRIL, P.M. A JJJUAN MARI/ BRAS,
SECRETARY-GENERAL OF THE MOVEMENT FOR THE INDEPENDENCE OF PUERTO
ICO, MADE THE FOLLOWING STATEMENTS IN A LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE
INTERVIEW ADR. LUTHER KING'S ASSASSINATION WILL UNDOUBTEDLY PRE-
CIPITATE THE REBELLION OF THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES
GAINST ALL THE ABUSES OF WHICH THEY HAVE BEEN THE OBJECT.

14.
7
ORM RADIO HABANA, 5 APRIL, UP.M. A SATHE EXECUTIVE. SECRETARIAT
OF THE ASIAN, AFRICAN, AND LATIN AMERICAN PEOPLES SOLIDARITY ORGANI-
CATION /AALAPSO/ SENT A MESSAGE OF CONDOLENCE TO THE SNCC ON THE
SSASSINATION OF LUTHER KING.." **THE AALAPSO'S MESSAGE TO THE
MERICAN PACIFIST ORGANIZATION ENDS AS FOLLOWS A SWE BEG YOU TO
XPRESS TO THE FAMILY OF MARTIN LUTHER KING AND TO ALL AFRO-AMERICANS
OUR DEEPEST SORROW OVER HIS DEATH OUR DECISION TO SUPPORT YOUR
STRUGGLE, AND OUR DEEP CONVICTION THAT THIS TERRIBLE CRIME--WHICH
SHOWS US THAT ARMED REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE IS THE ONLY WAY OF ACHIEV-
:
ING GENUINE LIBERATION--WILL HELP STRENGTHEN THE STRUGGLE OF THE
FRO-AMERICAN PEOPLE WHICH IS ALREADY AIMED IN THE DIRECTION OF A
"
OTAL CONFRONTATION. df

15.
"
5
7.
1
QPIT RADIO HABANA, APRIL, P.M. A JJAGUSTIN /GONZALEZ /
• MARTINEZ, BISHOP OF THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH OF CUBA, MADE THE FOLLOWING
TATEMENTS IN A SPECIAL INTERVIEW MAY THE TRAGIC DISAPPEARANCE
