104-10179-10195

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET
ROUTING
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

TO : DIRECTOR
FROM : SAN JOSE
ACTION: DCAM/SA 3
INFO : DOP, CA.H, VR

SECRET 3323132

DIR INFO WAVE 114.JA. CITE SJOS 6699
REF: SJOS S7 (534)
YAT TYPES AMWORLD
1N5403!
C/S COMENT: "DISSEMINATION APPLICASLE
TO RYBAT TYPIC YOBITE ANWORLD CABLES.

1. UNDER COVER OF ODACID POLIT OFFICER MICHAEL H. MARTUFFI
MET IOS, VISITING "ENGINEERING CONSULTANT", AT HOME PAO ON
2. APRIL. IDE REQUESTED PRIVATE TALK IN WHICH HE QUICKLY PUT
FORTH THE REQUEST THAT MARTUFFI TELL HIM WHAT WAS KNOWN LOCALLY
OF NATOLO RAY'S TRAINING EFFORT IN COSTA RICA. HE SAID "OUR GOVERNMENT
ANXIOUS TO KNOW WHAT JURE GROUP DOING HERE" AS IF HE
ODYCKE EMPLOYEE. MARTUFFI SAID POSING HAS HEARD RUMORS גבייס!
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES PER RECENT SPEECH MANJEL KORA SUT NOTHING
DEFINITE. IOEN SAID HE FRIEND MANOLO RAY AND "פא "סאא בא HAS
BOUGHT 133 FOOT BOAT WHICH NOW IN PUERTO RICO" יכא דייכס זנב
THO BACKS RAY FINANCIALLY.
2. IOEN VERY KNOWLEDGEABLE CENTRAL AMERICAN SITUATION AND
FULL-FLEDGED NAME DROPPER. KIS COMPANY RECENTLY SECURED CONTRACT

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHISITED

Copy No.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
EUROPE IS E! YORK. VIE? HIS BACKROUND AND ASTI. TO..
WONDERS IF HE KUPARKER AND IF NOT FOR WHO 25.
APPRECIATE INFO HIS STATIS IF ANY.

SECRET

SECRET

10. DIRECTOR
FROM : SAN JOSE
ACTION. DCAH/SA 3
INFO १ DOO, C/WM, VR

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
ROUTING
1.
2.
3.
4.
5
6

54034
SECRET 0303157
DIR INFO WAVE SANA CITE SJ03 6738
DESENSITREAS 6633 54031)
YEAR PICASOFLD
IDEN- ZACHARY DE CASTER OF SYITH AND GILLESPIE FUCISEFES,
JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA.

SECPFT
C/S COMMENT: DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYBAT TYPIC YOBITE AMWORLD
CABLES.

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.
