14-00000
104-10183-10346
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Background Use Only
RETURN TO CIA
Do Not Reproduce

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFIC ON TOP AND BOTTOM
UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

TO # NAME AND ADDRESS DATE INITIALS
1 Jack Hymn 3/23 88.
2
3
4
5
6

ACTION DIRECT REPLY PREPARE REPLY
APPROVAL DISPATCH RECOMMENDATION
COMMENT FILE RETURN
CONCURRENCE INFORMATION SIGNATURE

Remarks: F/1
I've been what to brief
norte and metais plek.
it would the to talk to
Not Partiagotu
FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS, ANO, PHONE NO. DATE

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET
FORM NO 237 Use previous editions
2-61 US GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1961-567282

14-00000,
MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Training

ATTENTION : Chlof, Covert Training/OS/T

SCLLCT : Covert Training for nombor of of COD
organization

REFERLACE 01 : Frupoerd Training Curriculum for Civoor
Traincea From CC/os/Tu

1. It is requested that covert training be given to
the CI2000 tratures listed below for the period of & March
30 April 1965. This will be the second group of CIWOO
trainees under this program which was initiated by the
11 Venezuelan Desk of Branch Three of ill Division through
03ar. Rawleigh Taylor Chief, Covert Training, in September
1967. The first group has been given an 8 wooks covert
course ending on 26 February 1965. The trainees will he
in Washington under the notional cover of "participating
in military training courses" or possibly a "purchasing
wission" Lon their Goverusiont. As such, they will not be
formal liaison visitors and will not be expected to enter
Headquarters buildinga, except for one day training in
the R & S Building, or to meet Agency officials,
16-17
01
2. Project Cho is a Carnens Station Itation
24
activity which has as ita objectives the estabitatmont
liaison
24or a Liaison relationship with the Wenezuelan Armed 24
Forces Intelligence Service, (SIFA) to poruit CIA to
improve the efficiency and capabilities of SIFA and
24
Loveutually recruit a member of SIFA, Jacob B. HUUSCHWOOD,
a Staff Agent under non-official cover in Curacan) to 16-17
providing advice and guidance to SIFA and is obtainiog
intelligence inforcation in return 24 It is believed that
covert training can help improve the efficiency and
:
14

14-00000
24
SI
-2-
Interual security for sit which will ouable this
organizatiou to more effectively coat the extronist
cherrilla tua terrorist activity formented by the
Il Communist Party of Vonozuola with old and oncouragecout
11 frua Cuba. Vouczucia is getting waximus attention from
Castro tu his effort to bring alout communist tale-over
ta latin Avoriou. Besides the inherent value of the
trataing itself, the creating of the training will hotp
SCCOU
mised.2000 improve his daily operational novociation
with Sita and enhanco its opportunity of making a succos
recruitaout in the future. Oriontation in Counter
Insurgency is also beling included to give li officiata 24
a greater awareness of the problem and thus to lay the
ground work for future work in this field.
24 ful recrui
03
3. The responsibio dosk oporations officer for thi
course will be Mr. William E. Cavan, who will be Lnown
to the trainees as "1111 Cabal", the same identity he
used with the first group. Ao Agency serviced telophone
nuaber, 636-3120 has leva arranged and will be given to
the trainees as a number where "Bill Cabal" can bo
reached in an emergency This quater is corviced 24
hours a day and Hr. Cavannis immediately notified to call
the persone who naked for him at that nuabor. Hr.
is located in room 382613 of lieadquarters Building,
extension 4521.
1
CAVAD 3
4. The following is pertinent Liographic data on
the trainces:
a. Lt. Colonel Mario FALANDO Lobato 6
DPOB: La Guatra, Venezuela, 25 September 1923 1923708
Marital Status: Married? April 1949. Mas three
seall childreu.
10
Formal Education: High School, Caracas (dates
unknown). A graduate of the
08 Venezuelan Military Acadenyia
1950. Attended the Infantry
School at Fort Bonning, Georgia,
in 1950 and studied English at
American University. In 196ίς 09
be attended the Argentine Aray
08 Scheel of War for approxixately
12 months.
2
10

14-00000
-3-
Language Ability:
Spanish and some nglish.
(English listed ca "fair")
Froment Status: Chief of Adainistration of J08
Arca knowledge: las visited the USA and Argentina
l'revious Intelligence
Training:
None fudicated, but ing
probably had come lutolligence
tralning either in the
Vonezuolan Aray or bis
course.
08 Venezu
06
Aray or la Argentine
Other: FURSCHLOOD considera ujardo as potential 24
reoruit on return to Venezucia and suggeste
bo to Iven special attention.11.
b. Major Luis Alfonso ОСНО
Major Luis
оспол106
DPOE: 9 September 1926, Las Pantas, State of
Venezuela.
08
Bolivar,
Marital Status: Married 1962, has 6 small childrea
Formal Education:
10
High School, Caracal, 1946-1950.
可
Putored the Venezuelan military) 08
servico tu 1948 aud has taken
intermediate and advanced courses
in the Venezuelan Tafantry School.08
He has commanded rifle platoons
and fofantry companies and has
been an iustructor in the infantry
School of of the Venezuelan Aray.
Language Alility: Only native Spanish
Present Status: Jofficial; exact title cot
Androated.
Training: not indicated
P'rovious Intelligence
0.
Lt. Colonel Haul JIMIENC
Gainza 06
08
Drow: IG December 1922, San Felipe, State of Yaracuy,
Venozuela
Martial Status: Carried - wife is platild
06
Abreu do
10
Jimenez
1

14-00000
14-
Formal Education: Not listed, but probably a
graduate of the Toneruntan 08
Military Monday.
Language Ability: Not indicated.
SIFA 08
Prosout Status: Deputy Deputy Director of SIFA
Previous Intelligence
Training: Not ludicated
Aróa Knowledge: Not iudicated.
رمان
Other: Jimenez has recently bona aadhaputy 08
Director of SIFA and should be given
doferouce as the leador of the group.
d. Lt. Colonol Lt. Colonel Solis Autonio MARTINEZ MARTINEL 106
Pros: 13 August 1926, San Luis, State of Faloon, 08
Venezuela
Hartial Status: Harried, three children
-10
Formal Education: High School, Carnons) 1940-1944;
Venezuela Hiitary Academy 1944-
1947 (graduate). Also anaploted
specialized courand in luteatry 08
(Tactics and Tank Warfare, fis voll
as the course of study given by
the Superior War College of the of
108.
(Veucsuolan Ministry of War. He
has served in a variety of
capacities within the venezuelan 108
Aron since 1947 comanning every
thing from platoons througla
battaliono as well as instructor
of artillery. He has are not 100
acninst the guerrillas in the 108.
Stute of Falcon. He served in
of Colourial dates usianown, a
member of the Venezuelan sission
to "Operation America". 08
Language Ability: Native Spanish, reads but does
Hot speak or write English. Nic
coupetence in understanding English.
1s given as "fair".
:
15/90

14-00000
-6-
Aroa nuowledgo: Subject's only travel outside of
.
Venezuela was to Colombia.
Irevious lutelligenco
11
11
Training: None indicated but probably
has had souo intelligonco
training during his @ilitary 08.
garoor.
08
29
Other: He is Chief of Investigations of the SIFA
and wii probably return to this position.
It is jonalble that he is aware of Station's 24
polico liaison with Venezuelan political 29,
polico (DIGEPOL), without knowing the
details of the Folationship.
06
05 POM's for trufuing have been granted for Fajardo
Jimenez 0611
and Hartinez and are pending for Chand Jione206
is aused that the trainees are aware of the Agency
affiliation of HORSCHWOOD and that the training will be
conducted by CIA. The Director of Sim is aware of
HURSCINFOOD' CIA association and was also received by the
DCI on 21 July 1964 during a visit to the U.S.
6. Training Requirements: The training should be
hold iu a safehouse, conducted in Spanish and on a full
Liwe basis. The suggested dates are frow & March through
30 April 1965, which have boen approved by Chiof, Covert
Training, OS/Th. The traluces will use actional military
training cover during the training period, and it is cot
anticipated they will ontor Headquarters building. Thoy
will be taken into the R & S Tuilding for a one-day
indoctrination in Seals and Flaps and Audio Survoillance.
Hoqucats for this entrance will be covered in a separate
paragraph. A one-day orientation course in Counter
Insurgency is also discussed in a subsequent paragraph
as well as an extonaive two-wook course in Flaps and Seale
For Major Ochon at a Tsh Safe House.
06
16-17
7. iloquirements for oil/0OS/Covert Training: ( Station
Caracas has submitted the following recommendations as
areas which should be covered in the training of these
officera: OME/OS/Covert Training may modify and/or adapt
the list as necessary.
a. The Organization of Clandestiuo Activitios
b.
Security
c. Observation and Description (Chang)

14-00000
-6-
d.
Surveillanco
:
9. Agent Acquisition
1. Spotting
Accesscout
3. Ασο
3. Recruitnout
4. Training
6. Mamaezent
6. Terdination
1. Ciandestino Communications
g. Counter Intelligenco
b.
Interrogation
1. Reporting
J. Intelligence Research and Analysis
106.
8. It is requested that Ground Brauch of SOD moke
the services of Colonel Valeriano available for a one-day
orientation in the latest techniques used in the field of
counterinsurgency. The trainees are well aware of the
general problems and history of fighting guerrillas and
are actively engaged in oporations at the present. It is
suggested that the instructions stress use of intelligence
in combatting guerrilla groups and ceana of procuring it
to include the creation of intelligence nets acang peasants
in the afflicted areas. It is also belioved that any
current information on modifications in the tactics of
Mao Tse-tung would also: be of value as would be examples
of the use of psychological warfare programs against the
guerrillas cud the intellectual leaders of the communiet
party, considered as the novlug force behind the guerrilla
novomentin Verozuolaji(It is proposed that Mr. Cavan 03
who would use the alias of "ill Cabal" fake the Te trafnees
to the office of Valorians and that Valeriano be introduced
as a consultant of CLA who is very knowledgeable of
counterinsurgency probleus Valeriano as a member of the
International lolice Services Academy, has talked to other
Latin American officials on this problem as part of his
overt duties. It is believed his talks will make SA09
more aware of the threats of insurgency movements and ated
Lo the ground work for possible future association with
SIFA or the the Venez Venezuelan Government in the counterinsurgency
06
29

14-00000
-7-
03.
Field. Through Mr. Ellio. Chief of the Ground Branch of
SOO, and Mr. Wall, of the same branch, one-half day
orientation course was given to the first trainees who
suggested that a full day vould be sufficient due to the
lovel of the above trainees and the experience they have
in this fiold.
3
9. Arrangemente have been made with Mr. Luria and
Mr. Eritz neko of TSD/Training to provido Major Lulu 06
Alfonso uchomwith chomwith a flaps and Souls course for the
period of 19-30 April at a TSD Safe House. It is believed
the Flure and Seals course will benefit CIA because it
will offor HERSCHOOL the opportunity to sintain closer
contact with ochon moil the responsible for this type
activity in SIA SIFA proposes to make a concertod
offort in the letter intercept fiold to koop botter
informed of the extrece loftist offorts to overthrow the
| Venezuelan government, and it is felt that HUILSCHWOOD
can keep abreast of the operation. Because of
SIFA'819
responsibilities, it is believed that the wore effiofent
effort that Sifcan gule in this field will result to
the benefit of CIA.Tinjor Ochon would take the first six
wooks of the covert training course then devote the last
two weeks to the Flops and Souls course.
10. It is also requested that TSO/Training provide
a one-day course in Audic Surveillance and flaps and
Seals for the other three trainees at the R & S Building.
This should be a very geuoral briefing with the least
possible omphasis on ocupiicated, expensive equipaout
that might be later requested by the trainces. It 10
believed this general introduction will give the IFA29
trainees some idea as to approaches and problema luvolved
in these fields as well as the pitfalls that should be
avoided. This one-day course was given to the first three
tratuses who appeared improused with the concepte expoand
to thea. This subject has also been discussed with Mr.
Luria ami a fira date has been selected for the training.
The OTit fustructor will accompany the trainees and act
as translator.
:

14-00000
8-
It is roquested that C1/CA obtalo permission
for the visitors to enter the it & S building for this
training which is scheduled for the 19th of April.
Concurrances:
DC/CI
DESMOND FITZGERALD
Chief
Vosteru Hemisphero Division

Dor Training and Qualification Review
03
WH/3/V/WECAVAN IP (24 Feb. 65)
Distribution:
Orig & 1
Addressce
1
DDP/TRO
1
CI/Staff
1
FI/OPS
2
TSD/TUNG
1
SOD/Ground
1
C/WID
1
C/MH/Pang
2
11/308
Удо
