104-10169-10265 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETUP CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

532
DATE 15 FEB 61
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
DUQUE

TO BELL
FROM WAVE
ACTION BELL 15
INFO COP, ADOR/A, WH 3, BELL S/C

FEB 15 23472 61
PRIORITY
IN 0044

PRITY BELA CITE WAVE 3691
JNZIP/AMDIP-3/ANHAZE

1. ANDIP-3 COURIER ARRIVED WAVE AREA FROM HAVA 14 FEB.
INFORMED A-3 HE ON WANTED LIST AND DUE TO SECURITY INCIDENT HIS RADIO
LINK TEMPORARILY CUT OFF.

2. SEVERAL DAYS AGO A-3 S/H RAIDED BY G2. HOUSE LOCATED NEAR
13TH AVE AND 198 ST, BILTMORE, HABANA AND OCCUPIED BY LADREA
"LOUISA" GIQUEL PICKED UP AND DETAINED 48 HOURS. HOUSE
CONTAINED ONE VIKING II RADIO, 2 HAND GENERATORS-GN58, A-3 CODES
AND MSG FILES: NONE FOUND DURING SEARCH WHICH APPARENTLY ACCOUNTS
FOR GIQUEL RELEASE.

3. AGENT 2515 DISPATCHED TO HABANA LEGALLY ON 12 FEB WITH
ORDERS TO CONTACT GIQUEL ABOUT 14 OR 15 FEB AND JOIN A-3 MOVEMENT
LINE TO ESCAMBRAY AS W/T OPR FOR OSVALDO RAMIREZ GROUP.

4. DUE GIQUEL INCIDENT ZABOTH INSTRUCTED AGENT.2517, WHO
DEPARTED WAVE LEGALLY FOR HABANA ON 14 FEB, TO CONTACT 2515
ON ARRIVAL AND WARN HIM AVOID CONTACT A-3 GROUP AND LAY LOW UNTIL
HE GIVEN FURTHER INSTRUCTIONS BY S/W.

5. WAVE AND A-3 CONSIDER IT ESSENTIAL ESTABLISH SECURE COMMO
BETWEEN WAVE AND A-3 GROUPS. PROPOSE DISPATCH AMJAVA-4 BY BLACK,
SLA INFILTRATION TO CUBA FOR THIS PURPOSE. INFILTRATION PLANNED
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.
4/90

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
PAGE 2
WAVE 3691
IN 0044
SECRET
BETWEEN 17-19 FEB. JAVA/2 AND 3 TO ACCOMPANY A-3 SOONEST SECURE
RECEPTION ARRANGED.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
