104-10180-10044

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

TO:	Chief of Station, Mexico City
INFO.
FROM	Chief, WILD

SUBJECT	PBRUMEN/AMC/Operational; Shipment of explosives to Mexico
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

Action:	FYI

Following is a translation of a report submitted by AMMUG-1
concerning a shipment of explosives to Mexico:

"The Communist Party of El Salvador iad asked me
to send them twenty-five one-quarter pound packages of
gelatin explosives. They requested that the explosives
be sent to Mexico wherd they would recove them and take
them to El Salvador.

'In view of the request, I spoke tuel PINEIRO
regarding the shipment itself, as well as the amount.
PINEIRO answered by telling me to do so.

Rusing my trip to Mexico (March 194, I spoke with
Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez regarding this swat and he
toid it that there wo need of my sending the explosives
to Mexico as this type of explosive was available in the
Embassy. I then told RODRIGUEZ that I would answer the
request from El Salvador.

Upon returning to Cuba I spoke with PINEIRO, who
told me not to send the explosives as the orders now were
to send nothing but money due to the recent exposure of
the arms shipment to Venezuela."

Distribution:
2.	COS, Mexico City

Chester D. DAISOL.D

P7365
14-00000

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contates information afarting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Love Tide
18. C.C. 800
of which in any manner to an unauthortord person ta prohibited by law.

SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba
SUBJECT Esther GAVILAN Rosales
DATE OF
INFO.	1964

PLACE &
DATE ACQ. Washington, D. C.
September 1964
REPORT NO.	CS CI-316/00714-64
DATE DISTR	8 September 1964
NO. PAGES 1
REFERENCES CSCI-3/782, 061
29 June 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence Service
until April 1664.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality information
provided by the source and includes supplemental information from the
records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the individuals
mentioned in the personality reports without first checking with this Agency.

Esther GAVILAN Rosales is the wife of Rogelio RODRIGUEZ
Lopez, the Subject of the above referenced report.

Headquarters Comment

1
1. Official travel manifests reveal that Esther GAVILAN Rosales arrived
in Mexico City from Cuba on 15 December 1961 and carried a diplomatic
passport; departed Mexico City for Cuba on 27 April 1962, carrying
Cuban diplomatic passport number D/61-538; and arrived in Mexico
from Habana on 8 July 1963, carrying Cuban diplomatic passport
number D/63/455.
1
STATE
DIA
CS COPY
SECRET
NO FORN DISSEM 201-83266S
ARMY
NAVY
AIR
NSA
I&NS
CINCSO #
REP CINCLANT
Note: Field distribution indicated by"#")
I&NS
OCR
FBI 2
INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
WH SA EOB
NE 5 R1
CELL THE CANADA
)
AH SA MOBI
VE MADR ICLREAS
REALS JE BRITISH
AHSAR
L NASHEER
RODANT
TOTALS
AH SA CLA
AH NAVE
PCAM NO
NH SA 7 (1), NE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1
1
OBSOLETE PRETEXT EDITIONS
LIAISON
201-332665

No Project (AMMUG-1)
CSCI-316714-6

A

14-00000

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains informatio affecting the National Defense of the l'alted Stare strain the meaning of the Engage Lava Tive
18. USC Seca. 793 and 794, the trane of revelation of which in any manner is an unauthorised person is present by law.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO. CS CI-316/00696-3:
COUNTRY Cuba
SUBJECT Shipment of Explosives to
Mexico

DATE DISTR. 25 August 1964
NO. PAGES 1
REFERENCES
1964
DATE OF
INFO.
PLACE & Washington, D. C.
DATE ACQAugust 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

Following is a translation of a report which source
wrote concerning a shipment of explosives to Mexico:

"The Communist Party of El Salvador had asked me to
send them twenty-five, one quarter pound packages of
gelatin explosives. They requested that the explosives be
sent to Mexico where they would recover them and take
them to El Salvador.

"In view of the request, I spoke with Manuel PINEIRO
regarding the shipment itself, as well as the amount.
PINEIRO answered by telling me to do so.

"During my trip to Mexico (March 1964) I spoke with
Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez regarding this shipment and he told
me that there was no need of my sending the explosives
to Mexico as this type of explosive was available in the
Embassy. I then told RODRIGUEZ that I would answer the
request from El Salvador.

"Upon returning to Cuba I spoke with PINEIRO, who told
me not to send the explosives as the orders now were to
send nothing but money due to the recent exposure of the
arms shipment to Venezuela."
:
5
4
54
5
3
SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
4
3
GROUP!
2
2
1
1

STATE
DIA
ARMY
NAVY
AIR
NSA
XXX
OCR
FBI 2

REP CINCLANT
CINCSO #
I&NS
(Note: Field distribution indicated by ".)

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
CHSA/FOB WES/R
CLLIA
1 LIE/CANADA

H/SA/MOB LINE MADR 2 CLRAA
31FZBRITISHI

OLESAR
VIL SA/CL4
LWASH/DR1
BOLAMAVE
RID AN

LISA 7 (1) ME 1 (2), CIA. RID 1
LY-1642
NO PROJECT(AMMUQ/1
CSCI-316.00696-64

ONNO FING
VWK:LD:Swk
CLAR&A
1
LIAISO
OBOLETS MAX SDITIONS
(20

CONFIDENTIAL

Date: August 20, 1964

To: Mr. Winston M. Scott

From: Clark D. Andersen
Legal Attache

Re: ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ

This document is for the use of your
agency.only and neither it nor its
contents should be further distributed
without appropriate authorization.

Reference is made to your communication of
May 26, 1964, that the subject and his chauffeur planned
to travel to Nuevo Laredo to pick up a new automobile.

A confidential source, who has furnished
reliable information in the past, furnished the follow-
ing information on July 24, 1964:

:. ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ, of 160 Uturgas Street,
Mexico City, was in Nuevo Laredo on May 27, 1964, to
obtain an automobile for the Cuban Embassy in Mexico
City. A 1964 black Ford Galaxie 500, Serial Number
4B52X150451, was delivered to RODRIGUEZ on May 27, 1964.

RODRIGUEZ appeared to be about 23 years of age,
and it is known that he was buying cigarettes and radios
during his stay in Nuevo Laredo.

CONFIDENTIAL
Group 1
Excluded from Automatic
Downgrading and Declassification

CONFIDENTIAL

The Mexican diplomatic license plates #333 were
placed on the above mentioned vehicle.

-2-

CONFIDENTIAL

Now has
D-36

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET

(When Pil104 103
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

BUDDACT OF BULLMET
DIN LANT ICTIFICATION
RI FILE NO.

GATE OF I
EVALVAFI0円

11. PATE

COCINENT DISCOSITION
***FEDRED TO THIS FILE
۲۰

۱۵۰
11.
Ad
RODRIGUEZ, LOPEZ, ROGEL 10
201-332665
SEX M DOB?
CUBA ?
CIT CUBA ?
201-334253
FIMMA-2402ό εοι
11 AUG 04
JI
P12
OCC IS AGENT
A MEXICO, MEXICO CITY
DGI OFFICIAL AND COMPLEMENT OF MANUEL
VEGA PEREZ /201-334253/.

19.
FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
... 887

SECRET
2 141 651
3

2141651
00000000
0000000
1111111111111111
22222222222222222222

444.4444
55555555555555555555
....................
11111111111111111111
.....

(۲۰۰۰)
HYMA 290280 EC1

111 Aug 64

MEMORANDUM FCR THE RECORD

EXCERPT
:
24 July 1964
(info of May 1964)

SUBJECT: General: Debriefing Report 126 of AMMUG/1
Specific: Identification of Cuban Passports
and Other Fhotographs

Source identified the photographs of subjects and gave the
following comments:

.....

GAVILAN Rosales, Esther
AMMUG identified subject as the
wife of Rogelio RODRIGUEZ ( Lopez J.
a DGI officer stationed in the Cuban
Embassy in Mexico City.

.....

Daniel Flores
WH/SA/CI

EXCERPTS

24 July 1964

11
1.2
18.
República de Cuba
Ministerio de Redariones Exteriores

Pasapor

El Sinistro de Relaciones Exteriores,
Vasaporte Diplomático a favor de
Fra Esther Gavilón Rosales
pia que por is via que más le convenga se dirija a
Çistutas Uridos Mexicunos
Biposa del Jr. Rogelio Rodriguez Lover Jecre
Hor tauta: en nombre del Sr. Firesidente de la República,
ardens a las Autoridades de la Nación le faciliten su embarca y
Is guasden las consideraciones debidas a su rangu. U ruega
sequiere a las de los paises extranjeros por donde transi-
bare, que le preeten todo el faber g ayuda que necesite y le re-
Conozcan las inmunidades y prerrogativas que conforme al Derecho
de goutes corresponden a los de su clase; haciéndolo asi asryu-
rfa reciprocidad en Cuba en casos análogos.
Habana, a 3. de
julio
de 1965
Acarintonas

10
1:1
12
13
PERSONAS QUE LE ACOMPAÑAN:
TIENE CUS ENTRE
CIOA

1.0
19
13
EMBAJADA DE MEXICO
VISA: DIPLOMATICA
NUMERO 648
Valida para dirigirse a Miéxico
LÀ HAGANA, CUBA 4 JUL 1963
PO DEL EMBAJADOR

1820
INNIGRA
ROEFESS
☆ JUL 8
BALIDA
8 1963
MIRISTERIO
DEL INTER
☆

/-
332665
República de Cuba
Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores.

Pasaporte Diplomati

El Muistro de Relaciones Exteriores,
comedr Vasaporte Diplomático a Lavor de
Ir Rogelio Rodriguez Koper
yara que por la via que más le convenga se dirija a
Gaiedos Unidos MEXICONOS
donde ejercerá las funciones de Secretario adscripto
la Embajada de Cuba
Por tanto: en nombre del Sr. Presidente de la República,
erdena a las Autoridades de la Nación te faciliten su embarca y
le guarden las consideraciones debidas a su rongo. Y rueya
y requiere a las de los países extranjeros por donde transi-
dare, que le presten todo el favor y anuda que necesite y le re-
conozcan las inmunidades y prerrogativas que conforme at Derecha
de gentes corresponden a los de su clase; haciéndolo asi asegu-
racia la reciprocidad en Cuba en casos análogos.
Habana, a
5 ε
julio
Y
de 1965
Pelcarin tonas
Sinisteg de Relac
de Relaciones Exteriores

'PERSONAS OUR LE ACOMPAÑAN

الحة

GRACION CUBA
BOYEROS
WISTERID DE IN THIOR
BALIDA
JUL 8 1953. ☆
EMBAJADA DE MEXICO
VISA: DIPLOMATICA
NUMERO: 647
Valida
México
TABACANA, DAR & JUL 1963
PO.FL ENSAJADOR
CONSEJERU STADOS ERIDOS
MEXICANOS

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

EXCERPT

24 July 1964.
(info of May 1964)

SUBJECT: General: Debriefing Report #126 of AMMUG/1
Specific: Identification of Cuban Passports
and Other Fhotographs

Source identified the photographs of subjects and gave the
following comments:

.....

GAVILAN Rosales, Esther
AMMUG identified subject as the
wife of Rogelio RODRIGUEZ ( Lopez J.
a DGI officer stationed in the Cuban
Embassy in Mexico City.

......

Daniel, Flores
WH/SA/CI

EXCERPTS

24 July 1964

1-3 32668
1:2
1.8.

República de Cuba
Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores

PERSONAS QUE LE ACOMPAÑAN:
7
TE PASAPORIE THUNG CUSACR ENTRE
OALSHJINMIGRACION

1,0
19
13
EMBAJADA DE MEXICO
VISA DIPLOMATICA
NUMERO 648
Válida para dirigirse a México
LÀ HAGANA, CUBA 4 JUL 1963

GODEL EMBAJADOR

TRANSMITTAL
OF
IDCS INFORMATION REPORT
CLASSIFICATION

DIFE

132 SECRET
ROUTING
1
Ja 23 21 19:54

TDCS-3

CRIG.
5.	Brown. S
1
UNIT
WH/SA/ Fports

EXT.
547
DATE
20

CONFIRMATION COPIES
3

INFORMATION COPIES
CI/CPS, CIVIC, F, 12, 1.5, 4. CA 2, CAPS, DO

DATE DISTRIBUTED
23 July 1964

OF
SAR 3 SA/31

SA/SARICE/
VA SACI
SAVOB 1
EVALUATION
REQUESTED
HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS
DISSEMINATION
WAFA
SAPA

WF/2/B

12/3/9
ARMY
NAVY
AIR

NO FOR DESSE

PRECEDENCE
ROUTINE
BASED ON (PLD, SPP., PROJ.)

153-03.6
aaser

CS INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICER(S)
Pershaw
RELEASING OFFICER
SECRET

YAEN FRIED IN)
C/SSA/Intel

COPY NO.

0000

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY CUBA MEXICO, LATIN AMERICA
DATE OF 16-21 JULY 1964
INFO.
SUBJECT
•

TDCS-314700009-01

DISTR. 23 43 1904
TRAVEL PLANS GE DELICATES TO THE 26 OF JULI
CELEZPATIONS IN CLEA

PLACE &
DATE ACQ. MEXICO, MEXICO CITY (17-22 JULY 1964)
SOURCE
REF
IN 33952

FIELD REPORT NO.
AND
APPRAISAL RESIDENT OF MEXICO WHO HAS SEPORID RELIABLE INFORMATION FOR AJANT
THREE YEARS. SOURCE HAS GOOD COFACTS AS CUBAN ASSY AND
CUBANA AIRLINES IN MEXICO CITY.

1. ON 16 JULY 1964 ΑΝΤΟΝΙΟ HADIK, SELF-IDENTIFIED AS A REPORTER
FOR PANORAMA, ARGENTINE MAGAZINE, MADE AN APPOINTMENT AT THE CUBON
EMBASSY IN MEXICO CITY TO SEF ABOUT OG HARAKA,

2. THE SAME DAY RAUL COSIO VILLEGAS Y CHAPA, MEMBER OF THE ARTS
AND TECHNIQUES COMMISSION OF THE SOCIEDAD MEXICANA DE AMISTAD CON
CHINA POPULAR (SMACP - MEXICAN SOCIETY OF FRIENDSHIP WITH PEOPLE'S
CHINA), WAS UNABLE TO OBTAIN FROM THE CUBAN EMBASSY ANY CONFIRMATION
ON HIS PLANNED TRIP TO CUBA.

3. ON 17 JULY A PERUVIAN DELEGATION OF EIGHT TO THE 26 OF
JULY CELEBRATIONS IN HABANA WAS AT CUSANA AIRLINES IN MEXICO CITY,
WHERELT WAS E ENCOUNTERING SOME FINANCIAL DIFFICULTIES.
This material contains information afecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Lave, Title
18. U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
SECRET

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC
O FOPEROR DIGE
OCI ONE OCR ORR 00

GAOUP 1
downgrading and
laduded bus يميومي

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
IDCS-
4. 5, 14:
PAGE
4. 5, 14:
OF THE UNIVERSIT OF C

PRO-COUNT PECTOR
IN
PAGE

*:
!
UNIDENTIFIED PROFESSOR, TOEF

RABANA ON 22 JULY TO ATTENDS.

5. OR 20 JULY THE CUDA PELIOC PASSAGES FOR TEN
COSTA RICANS ON CODA'S FLOOR
SLAN DOCH C

WRITER AND MONSER OF THE CENTRAL COMPTES OF THE PARTIDO COMUNISTA
MEXICANO (POM MEXICAN COMUNST PARTY, TOLD ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ
LOPEZ, SECOND SECRETARY OF THE COSAN ENSASSY, HON HE MAC PC SES
ON 23 JULY, THAT HE HAD SEEN PUT THE WAITING LIST FOR 24 JULY
BUT IT WAS CERTAIN THAT HE COULD LEAVE ON 25 JULY, DANIEL CLINA,
OF POLITICA, MERICAN MARYSTAL MAGAZINE, ALSO HAD TICKETS
TO LEAVE ON 25 JULY. (FIELE COVER:
HAS BEEN

PREVIOUSLY REPORTED TAT MOU DA DAS ATTEND THE CELEBRATIONS CATHER
FOR POLITICA OR AS A DELEGATE OF THE CONTENTO DE LIBERACION
NACIONAL. (MIN - NATIONAL LISTEMENT), PRO-CUSA, ANTI-
UNITED STATES COMUNIST FRONT.,

6. ON 21 JULY JOSE MIGUEL FERNANDEZ ROA, THIRD SECRETARY OF THE
CUBAN EMBASSY, PROMISED ECONDO ARDES ARZATS, DIRECTOR OF PRENSA
LATINA, CUBAN NEWS AGENCY IK NEXICO CITY, TO AND CESAR BALLESTEROS,
PADIO OPERATOR OF THE AGENCY, IN GETTING MIS VISA, FERNANDEZ ASKED
JARUCE REPLIED AFFENSIVELY, AND SAND THAT
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRETNO FOREIGH DISSEN
(When Filed In)
TDCS-311/00609-64

IN 33962
PAGE
J
A CUBANA RESERVATION HAD BEEN MADE FOR HIM.
7. ALSO, AS OF 21 JULY CUSANA HAC CANCELED ITS FLIGHT OF
22 JULY AND WAS NOT PLANNING AND HER ONE UNTIL 25 JULY.
8. FIELD DISSEM: STATE, FBI: ARMY, NAVY, AIR, CINCSO, CINCLANT.

SECRET

END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEY

4
1143

505.
P-7365.
X
....
-
participantes 6 sean 360 dólares en "nuestra cuenta en el
-
- Bank de Washington", pero resulta que recibieron un
telegrama de Roma diciendo que la fecha límite para ese do-
posito es el 20 de julio y querían saber si se había hecho-
el depósito o nó, ya que mediante ese depósito jodrían ha--
cerse los arreglos para los boletos de los becarios a San--
tiago de Chile.
Derta pide su teléfono, ya que tiene-
que hablar con el embajador y Trouppe dice que es el 257550
ext.31.
Berta toma nota.- 505.-

Entrada 1226.- Novicky, Segundo Secretario de la Emba-
Jada de Checoslovaquia al no encontrar a Rogelio Rodriguez,
pide a Berta le diga que no se le olvide la cena que tiene-
hoy con él a las 20.00 h. en su casa.
Berta:que estd-
bien.
536.-

536.
Entrada. HF solicita hablar con Roa y Berta pide lla-
me al 141326.- 550.-

566.
Salidas ocupado y equivocado. 591.-

593.
Salida al 186935.-1246.- Berta se comunica a la casa--
del Dr.Gustavo Baz y pregunta la dirección para mandarle --
una invitación para el 26 de julio y HF dice que es Bravo
14, San Jerónimo.- 610.-

612.
Entrada 1317.- IHF pregunta a Berta si han sabido algp-
acerca de la visa para los alumnos becados cubanos y Berta-
dice que nó, que llame mañana. IIF acepta.- 621.-

621.
Entradas sin contestación.- 633.-

(6.-136.-17 Julio 64).-

1.7365

14-00000
TRANSMITTAL
OF
TOCS INFORMATION REPORT
CLASSIFICATION

ALLO

132 SECRET
ROUTING
1
Ja 23 21 09:54

TDCS-5
ORIG B. Brownies.
UNIT
Sports
EXT.
DAFE
5547
20

CONFIRMATION COPIES
5
3

INFORMATION COPIES.
CI/CPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/D, IT/15, 16, CA 2, CA/PES, DD,

DATE DISTRIBUTED
23 July 1964

OF
SAR
3 SA/31
SALICE/SA/SCS
SACI
SA SOB 1
EVALUATION
REQUESTED STATE
HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS
DISSEMINATION
WHFAC
WP

WF/2/9

12/3/9
ARMY
NAVY
75/
AIR

NO FORLENDISSE

PRECEDENCE
ROUTINE
BASED ON (FLD. APT., PROJ.)

31-0316
FM-9225
LANC

Sor

CS INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICER(S)
W. Pershaw
RELEASING OFFICER
SECRET

YAEN FRLED IN)
C/SSA/Intel

COPY NO.

CYCLETE PREVIOUS TO
(13-20-44-4

SECRET
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
Intelligence Information Cable
NO FOREFLY DISSE

* SOOTING

COUNTRY CUBA MEXICO/LATIN AMERICA
DATE OF 16-21 JULY 1964
INFO.
SUBJECT
TDCS-374/00809-01

DISTR. 23 0 1904

TRAVEL PLANS GE DELICATES TO THE 26 OF JULI
CELEBRATIONS IN GUEA

PLACE &
DATE ACQ MEXICO, MEXICO CITY (17-22 JULY 1964)
SOURCE
REF
IN. 33962
FIELD REPORT NO. 1-9118
AND
APPRAISAL RESIDENT OF MEXICO WHO HAS SEPORIKO RELIABLE INFORMATION FOR ABOUT
THREE YEARS. SOURCE HAS GOOD CONTACTS IN CAR CUBAN ASSY AND
CUBANA AIRLINES IN MEXICO CITY.

1. ON 16 JULY 1964 ANTONIO HADIK, SELF-IDENTIFIED AS A REPORTER
FOR PANORAMA, ARGENTINE MAGAZINE, MADE AN APPOINTMENT AT THE CUBAN
EMBASSY IN MEXICO CITY TO SEE ΑΒΟΥΣ GOING TO HABANA,
:

2. THE SAME DAY RAUL COSIO VILLEGAS Y CHAPA, MEMBER OF THE ARTS
AND TECHNIQUES COMMISSION OF THE SOCIEDAD MEXICANA DE AMISTAD OON.
CHINA POPULAR (SMACP - MEXICAN SOCIETY OF FRIENDSHIP WITH PEOPLE'S
CHINA), WAS UNABLE TO OBTAIN FROM THE CUBAN EMBASSY ANY CONFIRMATION
ON HIS PLANNED TRIP TO CUBA.

3. ON 17 JULY A PERUVIAN DELEGATION OF EIGHT TO THE 26 OF
JULY CELEBRATIONS IN HABANA WAS AT CUBANA AIRLINES IN MEXICO CITY,
WHERE IT WAS ENCOUNTERING SOME FINANCIAL DIFFICULTIES.
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws. Title
18, US.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
SECRET

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC
GROUP
facluded than بايونيو
downgrading and
NO FORETON DIGEEM

ASIA OCI ONE OCR ORR 00

FB
S

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET 72
(When Filed Inj
IN
TDCS-334200509-0
PAGE
4. ALSO, THAT DA, ALSCR PPO-COMMUNIST PECTOR
OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHOSONG PLANING, ALONG WITH ANOTHER
UNIDENT IF20 PROFESSOR, TO LEAVE FOR

HABANA ON 22 JULY TO ATTEND THE CELEBRATIONS.
5. ON 20 JULY THE COSAN CONSULATE RESERVED PASSAGES FOR TEN
COSTA RICANS ON CUBANA'S FLIGHT OF JULY JUAN DUCH COLLEL,
WRITER AND MEMBER OF THE CENTRAL COMA TREE OF THE PARTIDO-COMUNISTA
MEXICANO (POM - MEXICAN COMMUNIST PARTY), TOLD ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ
LOPEZ, SECOND SECRETARY OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY, MION HE WAS TO SEE
ON 23 JULY, THAT HE HAD BEEN PUTION THE MATTING LIST FOR 24 JULY,
BUT IT WAS CERTAIN THAT HE COULD LEAVE ON 25 JULY, DANIEL MCLINA,
OF POLITICA, MEXICAN MARVIST SOMI-MONT-LY MAGAZINE, ALSO HAD TICKETS

.
TO LEAVE ON 25 JULY. (FIELD CONMENT: IT HAS BEEN
PREVIOUSLY REPORTED THẤT MỌI TÀ MÀSTO ATTEND THE CELEBRATIONS EITHER
FOR POLITICA OR AS A DELEGATE OF US MOVIMIENTO DE LIBERACION
NACIONAL (MLN - NATIONAL LISCRATION LOVEMENT), PRO-CUSA, ANTI-
UNITED STATES COMUNIST FRONT.;
:

6. ON 21 JULY JOSE MIGUEL FERNANDEZ ROA, THIRD SECRETARY OF THE
CUBAN EMBASSY, PROMISED EDMUNDO JARDOS ARZATE, DIRECTOR OF PRENSA
LATINA, CUBAN NEWS AGENCY, IN NEXICO CITY, TO AND CESAR BALLESTEROS,
PADIO OPERATOR OF THE AGENCY, IN GETTING IS VISA, FERNANDEZ ASKED
JARDON IF CARLOS CATALAR FUENTES, SOPORTER FOR THE ARENCY, MAD
HIS VISA READY.
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

TDCS-311/00609-6-

IN 33962
PAGE
J
A CUBANA RESERVATION HAD BEEN MADE FOR HIM.
7. ALSO, AS OF 21 JULY CUSANA HAD CANCELED ITS FLIGHT OF
22 JULY AND WAS NOT PLANNING ANOTHER ONE UNTIL 25 JULY.
8. FIELD DISSEM: STATE, FBI, ARMY, NAVY, AIR, CINCSO, CINCLANT.

SECRET
END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEY

505.
P-7365
X
1143

....
-

participantes 6 sean 360 dólares en "nuestra cuenta en el -
-
Bank de Washington", pero resulta que recibieron un
telegrama de Roma diciendo que la fecha límite para ese do-
posito es el 20 de julio y querían saber si se había hecho-
el depósito o nó, ya que mediante ese depósito Lodrfan ha--
cerse los arreglos para los boletos de los becarios a San--
tiago de Chile.
Derta pide su teléfono, ya que tiene--
que hablar con el embajador y Trouppe dice que es el 257550
ext.31.
Berta toma nota. 505.-

Entrada 1226.- Novicky, Segundo Secretario de la Emba-
Jada de Checoslovaquia al no encontrar a Rogelio Rodriguez,
pide a Berta le diga que no se le olvide la cena que tiene-
hoy con él a las 20.00 h. en su casa.
Berta:que esta-
bien.
536.-

Entrada. HF solicita hablar con Roa y Berta pide lla-
mo al 141326.- 550.-

566.
Salidas ocupado y equivocado.- 591.-

593.
Salida al 186935.-1246. Berta se comunica a la casa--
del Dr.Gustavo Baz y pregunta la dirección para mandarlo --
una invitación para el 26 de julio y HF dice que es Bravo
14, San Jerónimo.- 610.-
-

612.
Entrada 1317.- IHF pregunta a Berta si han sabido alg-
acerca de la visa para los alumnos becados cubanos y Berta-
dice que nó, que llame mañana. IIF acepta.- 621.-

621.
Entradas sin contestación. 633.-

(6.-L36.-17 Julio 64).-

1.7365

TRANSMITTAL
OF
TOCS INFORMATION REPORT

CLASSIFICATION
ALLO
132 SECRET
ROUTING

