14-00000
104-10164-10032
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED
AUTERNAL
ONLY
CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET

ZOUTING AND RECORD SHEET

FROM:
WE/2 MARION E. LINDE
February 1959

COMMENTS prach comment to show how

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

13 FEB 1959

BLOCK MORRIS
DATE 12, 71195J.
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED
6. GOVERNMENT PROFES

14-00000
1 Director
SECRET
13 FEB 1959

Federal Surem of Investigation
Attentions Nr. 3. J. Hapieh
• Deputy Director, Plans
SUBJECT: Mollie BLOCK; Morris BLOCK / 01-1942.31)
No 201
1. The following information on Subjects has been received
from the Dutch Internal Security Service (BVD).29

2. On & November 1958 Hollie BLOCK (bora 6 November 1911 in
New York), holder of American passport No. 116708, left Schiphol
Airport in Amsterdam on a KIM flight bound for Hoscow via Warsaw.
She traveled with her child Johanna Horris BLOCK, born in 1950, whe
was said to be in possession of a Greek passport. Mrs. BLOCK had
originally planned to fly to Hoscow on 2 September, but học trip
wes postponed by the circumstances outlined below.

3. On 30 August 1958 Morris BLOCK, husband of Mollie BLOCK,
arrived at Amsterdan on a KLM flight from Montreal. BLOCK was
carrying American passport No. 921617, issued 12 April 1956 but changed
by him to read 12 April 195" se thet is would appear to be still valid.
Marris BLOCK was refused entry to The Netherlands on the basis of his
falsified passport. The American Consulate in Amsterdam validated
his passport for a single return trip to How York, and he was sent
back to Kar Yark on a KLM plane at 2359 hours on 30 Angust 1958.

Marie BLOCK was born in New York en 30 March 1920s he is
ashinist by cocupation, and his home address was given as 258 Corbán
Mast, coklyn, New York. BLOCKS's passpert carried the following

Ragland In via London Airport 23-7-1957
OUT via Dover 24-7-1957
If via Dover 16-10-1957
OUT via lamdon Airport 16-10-1957

Franc Da Tha Danish Ein-7-1957
Ut via Mrassbourg 25-7-1957
SECRET
CS COPY 201-194231

1-5D

14-00000
CECKET
2
1
Denmark IN via Kastrup Airport 15-10-1957
WT via Kastrup Airport 16-10-1957

Canada Df via Montreal Airport 17-10-1957

BLOCK stated to the Dutch passport control officer that he had
visited the USSR 25 July 1957 - 15 October 1957 as a delegate to the
World Youth Festival held in Moscow in 1957. BLOCK stated it was his
plan to travel from The Netherlands to Noscow and to settle himself
and his fardly there. He said his visa for itussia was ready at the
Soviet Zabassy in The Hague and that since he was not permitted to
obtain a new valid passport, he had changed the date of issuance of
his former passport to make it appear to be still valid. Since he had
not known for sure that he would be allowed to depart from the United
States, his wife and child were to take a later plane to Amsterdam
after his wife knew he had reached Canada. He said that he had been
unemployed in the United States and that his wife had had to support
the fardly on her salary of $65 a week.

5. BLOCK stated to the Dutch passport control officer that there
was only one country in the world where freedom was really possible,
and that he wished to go tiere. He no longer wanted to live in
America, for the laws were made there by three or four families and
the rest had to fall in line. He had had more than enough of the
slique around Eisenhower. He stated he no longer valued his American
nationality and asked if they could not adit him so that he could
apply to the Russian Embassy. He said his wife had the money and
Mekete for the trip to Moscow from Amsterdam..

6. BLOCK had with hin a suitcase and a cage with a parrets his
wife vas to take the rest of their belongings with her. Also in his
possessica were

Newbarship book for District 65, Retail, Wholesale, and
Department Store Union, AFL-C10, 13 Astor Flasce, New York 3
Ascued to Morris BLOCK - 238 Corbin Place, Brooklyn 35,
Nesbership number 50923, membership paid up to 25 August 1958.
In addition, he carried a District 65, AFL-010 Employment Office
Galde giving a registration date of 19 July 1958.
b. Mrth certificate No. ból, issued by State of Fam
Zoek certifying the birth of Morris Block on 3 March 1930.

*g cards on which werer BK 15145 and 88 31054.
4. A small pin with the legend "VIth World Festival of Youth
Students Meso 1957,
Two visiting sarde, on which weres
SECRET

14-00000
SEC
Stanley FAULEIUNER, Counselor et Low, 9 East Loth Street,
New York. 16, Lexington 2-7760. Hanter 1-4093 was written
on this.

Stella ELIASHOW, Remedial Reading, English Tutoring,
56 Seventh Avenue, New York 11, New York.

7. BLOCK alse threw away a used piece of carbon paper which he
obviously did not want to have with him or his return to the USA. The
carbon read as folloRSS

WINDSUR Clothing Company
97 5th Avenue
New York City, r
27 August 1958
For Mr. Jack KLOERT
1 round-trip United Air ticket 162.2.361424
La Quardia-Cleveland-La Quardia - 10% tax
For Hrs. Jack ELGERT
10% tax
1 round-trip United Air ticket 162.2.361425
$54.90
5.49
$ 10.85
4.02
$105.33

8. BLOCK had 863 with him. A room had been reserved at the
Ketel Krasnapolsky in Amsterdam for him and his wife, since they had
planned to travel together to Moscow on 2 September 1956. On his
departure for the United States, BLOCK axolained as followss "Oh,
now I have to go back to the United States, but I have no money and
I also had not paid for the trip, or what more can happen to me?"

0801 - 3/753,461
Distributions.
Orig & 1-FBI
1 - RI/AM
1- CI/R&A
1- 01/Staff
1 - ME/2
Prepared by: Marion E. Linde
10 February 1959
SECRET
1376
201-194231
