14-00000
104-10167-10366
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TRANSMITTAL
OF
TDCS INFORMATION REPORT
ORIG. J. Langdon:jg
UNIT TFW/Intel/Reports
EXT. 5547
DATE 24 August 1962
CONFIRMATION COPIES
TFW 13
INFORMATION COPIES
CI/OPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/D, FI/INT 5, IN 2, CA 2, CA/PRG, OS, WH9

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
(When Filled In)
ROUTING
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Fleproduce

24 17 58.62
ROLLABLE SELT.

TDCS DB-3/651,144

DATE DISTRIBUTED
24 August 1962
PRECEDENCE
ROUTINE
DISSEMINATION
TFW/R2 TFW PA-PROP 2 WH/PACY 1
TFW/INT 2 TFW/WAVE 1 WH/3/CR 1
TFW/FI 2 TFW/SI1 1 WH/3/P2 1
TFW/CI 2 1
TFW/PM1OS/SSD/Bauman 1
EVALUATION
REQUESTED
STATE ARMY NAVY AIR
BASIS FOR EVALUATION
BASED ON (Fid. Rpt. Proj.)
PACY-8333 (IN-46636)
NP (HYIF-1)02
PACY-8349 (IN-49327)
NP (EYHULA-1)02
WAVE-7053 (IN-45475)
NP (AMBUD-1)
Liaison *

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS
CONTROLLED DISSEM

DD/P INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
(When Filled in)
COORDINATING OFFICER(S)
WH/3/P/R

RELEASING OFFICER
God w. Koppel 03
C/TFWIntel for ad
COPY NO.

318R

14-00000
TELEGRAM IN: ORMATION REP RT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This trial contos dormation effection of as died States within the meaning of the Esplanage Love, Tate it, USC. Sock
713 and 74, the baseminine or relation of which la ery manner to as stethorbed perice is prohibited below

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
COUNTRY CUBA/PANAMA
SUBJECT
ATTEMPT OF ANTONIO VARONA, OF
CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL, TO
OBTAIN SUPPORT OF PRESIDENT
CHIARI OF PANAMA IN ACTION TO
OVERTHROW CASTRO REGIME
DATE OF
INFO. 14-21 AUGUST 1962
PLACE &
DATE ACO. PANAMA, (PANAMA CITY (15-21 AUGUST 1962)
APPRAISAL 2
SOURCE FIELD REPORT NO
S-E-C-R-E-T
CONTROLLED DISSEM
REPORT NO. TDCSDB-3/651,144
DATE DISTR 24 AUGUST 1962

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
REFERENCES
IN-46636
IN-49327
IN-45475

THIS IS LUNEVALUATED INFORMATION SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
PARA 1: PANAMANIAN (F) CLOSE TO PRESIDENT CHIARI PARAS 2-3:
PANAMANIAN (C) WITH CONTACTS IN HIGH-LEVEL OFFICIAL CIRCLES.

1. ON 15 AUGUST 1962 ANTONIO VAROSA LOREDO, DEPUTY CHIEF OF
THE CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL (CRC), VISITED PRESIDENT ROBERTO
CHIARI OF FINAMA AND REQUESTED CHIARI TO ORGANIZE AND HOST A MEET-
ING OF CENTRAL AMERICAN CHIEFS OF STATE ON THE CUBAN ISSUE WITH
EMPHASIS ON INFILTRATION OF CASTRO AGENTS INTO CENTRAL AMERICA.
VARONA SAID THAT SUCH A MEETING SHOULD BE HELD AT A VERY EARLY
DATE AND THAT CHIARI SHOULD INVITE PRESIDENT KENNEDY TO ATTEND.
CHIARI TOLD VARONA THAT THIS WOULD BE A MOST SERIOUS UNDERTAKING
REQUIRING INTENSIVE STUDY AND THAT HE COULD MAKE NO COMMITMENT
TO VARONA ON THE MATTER. ON 16 AUGUST VARONA LEFT PANAMA FOR
SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA, SAYING HE WOULD RETURN TO PANAMA ON

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
S-E-C-R-E-T
CONTROLLED DISSEM
STATE ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR 100 DIA FBI
INS REPCINCLANT

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

UBR
LM

14-00000
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
S-E-C-R-E-T/CONTROLLED DISSEM
IN-46638
D-49327
TDCSDB-3/651,144 -45475
PAGE 2
20 AUGUST AND HOPED TO TALK TO PRESIDENT CHIARI AGAIN AT THAT
TIKE.

2. ON 20 AUGUST A GROUP OF CUBAN EXILES IN PANAMA CALLED ON
MARCOS ROBLES, PANAMANIAN MINISTER OF GOVERNMENT AND JUSTICE, AND
REQUESTED ROBLES TO TRY TO PERSUADE PRESIDENT CHIARI TO PERMIT THE
ESTABLISHMENT IN PANAMA OF A TRAINING BASE FOR CUBAN EXILES.
3. ON 21 AUGUST PRESIDENT CHIARI SAID THE MAIN PURPOSE OF
VARONA'S VISIT WAS TO REQUEST CHIARI'S APPROVAL OF A TRAINING
BASE IN PANAMA, AND THAT HE HAD TOLD VARONA HE WOULD TAKE THE
MATTER UNDER CONSIDERATION. HOWEVER, CHIARI DISCUSSED IT WITH
MEMBERS OF HIS GOVERNMENT SUBSEQUENTLY AND IT WAS AGREED THAT
PERMISSION WOULD NOT BE GRANTED FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A
TRAINING SITE.
4. HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: ON 13 AUGUST DR. JOSE MIRO CARDONA,
PRESIDENT OF THE CRC, SAID IN MIAMI THAT VARONA WAS LEAVING MIAMI
14 AUGUST ON A TRIP TO PANAMA AND COSTA RICA. MIRO SAID THAT THE
PURPOSE OF THE TRIP VAS GENERAL PUBLIC RELATIONS WITH NO
PARTICULAR MOTIVE IN MIND. HE MENTIONED THAT VARONA WOULD SEE
PRESIDENT CHIARI WHILE HE WAS IN PANAMA TO DISCUSS THE CUBAN
PROBLEM IN GENERAL AND ATTEMPT TO ENLIST "FURTHER SUPPORT FOR
THE CAUSE." HE SAID VARONA WOULD ALSO INQUIRE OF CHIARI WHETHER
THERE WERE ANY NEW DEVELOPMENTS ON A SUGGESTED MEETING OF THE
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
S-E-C-R-E-T/CONTROLLED DISSEN

14-00000
CLASSIFICATION DISSERLATION CONTROLS
8-E-C-R-E-T/CONTROLLED DISSEM
IN-46636
N
TDCSDB-3,651,144 PAGE
-49327
-45475
3
.
FOREIGN MINISTERS OF CENTRAL AMERICA WHICH HAD BEEN DISCUSSED
WHEN HE (MIRO) WAS IN THE AREA IN JUNE. THERE WERE APPARENTLY
REASONS FOR VARONA'S TRIP OTHER THAN THE OSTENSIBLE ONES STATED
BY MIRO. THERE ARE RUMORS THAT SOME MEMBERS OF THE CUBAN EXILE
COMMUNITY IN MIAMI ARE MAKING EFFORTS TO OBTAIN HELP IN
CONVINCING PRESIDENT CHIARI TO PERMIT THE ESTABLISHMENT IN
PANAMA OF A CUBAN GOVERNMENT-IN-EXILE HEADED BY DR. MIRO CARDONA.
5. FIELD DISSEM: CINCARIB, CINCLANT
END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
S-E-C-R-E-T/CONTROLLED DISSEN
-
