104-10185-10128

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws. Title
18, U.S.C. Sees 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba
SUBJECT Guillermo ARASTAGUIA
REPORT NO. CS CI 316/00643-64
DATE DISTR. 11 August 1964
NO. PAGES 2
REFERENCES CSCI-3/779,803
CS-311/00115-64

DATE OF
INFO
1964
PLACE & Washington, D. C.
DATE ACQ. August 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

1. Guillermo ARASTAGUIA, pseudonym "Rene," is the chief of the
Department of Technical Operational Support (MI) in the
Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of
Intelligence DGI). He was formerly the secretary of
Ramiro VALDES in the Departamento de Seguridad del Estado
(Department of State Security - DSE), but ARASTAGUIA was a
follower of Anibal ESCALANTE and because of a problem
concerning ESCALANTE and because ARASTAGUIA was believed to
be a homosexual, VALDES transferred him to the DGI. ARASTAGUIA
went to the Youth Festival in Helsinki as a representative
of the DGI and has traveled to Moscow three times.

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

2. ARASTAGUIA was born in 1934, is about five feet seven inches
in height, has blond hair and green eyes. He is fat, has a
chin that juts out, lips that are somewhat sunken, and has a
rather high pitched voice and seems effeminate. 1,2,3

Headquarters Comments

1. A report dated 6 October 1960, from an official Ecuadorean
source, provided a list of Cuban Communists. One Guillermo
ARRASTIA, aka "Rene," possibly identical with Guillermo
ARASTAGUIA, was included and described as a first lieutenant.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

DIA
ARMY
NAVY
AIR
OCR
FBI
REP CINCLANT
CINCSO = LENS

Note: Field distribution indicated by "#".)

S/A
ST
CIA REP
S/SAOS/5 1 CI/LIA
S/MADR 2 CI/RSA
SCT
RID/AN
1
1
TECHNADAD
JE SRITIS
LIAISON

LX-1631
NO PROJECT (AMMOG/?
CSCI-323/00643-54
SA7(1), WE 1 (2), CIA, RID 1

executive. in G-2.
of Raul CASTRO and
man in G-2.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

ARRASTIA was reported to have the confidence
Ramiro VALDES; and he was VALDES' righthand

2. An official roster listing the military staff personnel comprising
the Intelligence Department, G-2, of the Cuban Ministry of the
Armed Forces (MINFAR) was received by a representative of this
Agency from an untested source in a report dated 1 March 1961.
Included on this list was one First Lieutenant Guillermo
ARRASTIA Fundora, possibly identical with Guillermo ARRASTAGUIA.

3. In a report dated 28 October 1962, a list of identified and
suspected Cuban intelligence officers was included, the list was
received from an official liaison service. One First
Lieutenant Guillermo ARRATIA (or ARRASTIA) Fundora was included
on the list and described as an identified intelligence officer
on the G-2 Headquarters staff.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
