104-10171-10034

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MICROFILMED
Chief, Task Force AUG 1 1962
Chief of Station,

GYROSE/Operational
DPE/Guerrillas-lavana and Las Villas
ATTENTION REQUESTED: PM, KUTUBE.
16 July 1962 RETURN TO CIA
CK - 167 Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
all
CITCUBA

Drop 1. On 14 July 1962, Juan Rodriguez Jobolca, A 12 821 206,
born 19 November 1934, Rancho Veloz, Las Villas, last address, Havana;
US address: c/o Jose Deetjen, 14746 East 57th Street, Apartment 3,
Maywood, Los Angeles, California, telephone 581-5569, wes interviewed.

2. Source said he formerly belonged to the DRF, but after Playa
Ciron it disintegrated. Nevertheless, he said, he was able to keep in
contact with a few DRE people who are in Havana. He said details on the
DRE could be obtained from Manuel Salvat, but he did state that he belonged
to the DRE group headed by a brother of Diaz Lanz. This brother is still
in Havana. He said this group wants to engage in political assassination,
and has repeatedly requested that pistols with silencers be sent from
the United States.
F 06.
3. Source said that his cousin, Salvador Jomolca, is a guerrilla
leader in Las Villas Province, more specifically operating between
Matenzes and Corralillo. He said that his cousin is a Ileutenant about
30 years old. He has a small group, few arms, and very little ammunition.
He is trying to get outside help but there is no method of communicating
with him.
106,08
4. Source said that Salvador Jomolca ic married to a daughter
of "Campito", the elder. (Comment: A previous source reported that
there are two "Canpito"s, a father and his son. The son is the most
reported upon guerrilla leader, the father apparently only accompanying
the son.)

Nelson L. RAYNOCK

CS COPY
SECRET

19-120-19

21BR
