104-10174-10072
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: LYNCH, GRAYSON
DED FILE

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
|---|---|---|---|
| 22 A6 28 6pm | JAME | PAT ORR |  |
| 22 A6 | JAME | JAMES P. KELLY |  |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

BUSINESS:
Subject is a retired CIA employee.

GRAYSTON LYNCH
8709 Bay Point Drive
Tampa, Florida

DCD-399/78
10 April 1978
MEMORANDUM FOR: DDO/ISS/IP/EIS
FROM: Ruth Elliff
DCD/FIO/PAO
SUBJECT: House Select Committee on Assassinations Request (OLC 78-1035)

1. I have searched DCD's records on the individuals listed in subject request with the following results:
a. Carlos Quiroga negative
b. Pedro Diaz Lanz Two documents for your retention. Please note that the teletype of 6 February 1977 also includes the names of several other individuals of interest to the committee.
c. Roland Masferrer File A-16-88-46 on loan and documents for retention. (Masferrer is a subject of a recent FOIA request, F-77-260.)
d. Manolo Rey DCD case 42315 on loan (also contains references to Manuel Artime). Retention copies of additional documents also included.
e. Antonio Cuesta Valle Documents for retention.
f. Antonio Veciana Documents for retention (please note that the documents also contain references to Antonio Cuesta Valle).
g. Edward L. Freers negative
h. Mrs. G. Stanley Brown negative
i. David E. Murphy negative
j. Aline Mosby Documents for retention.

E2 IMPDET CL BY 386090

DCD-399/78
10 April 1978
SUBJECT: House Select Committee on Assassinations Request (OLC 78-1055)

k. Abraham Isaac Goldberg One document for retention.
n. Robert J. Korengold negative
n. Marita Lorenz File A-20-44-72 on loan. Please note that Ms. Lorenz recently filed a request under the Privacy Act (P-77-2794).
o. Evelio Alpizar Perez Documents for retention.
p. Antonio Soto Vazque negative

2. With regard to the four names listed together on page two of subject menorandum, I am forwarding documents dealing with Justin McCarthy and a Robert M. Moore. It is uncertain whether or not these individuals are the ones of interest to the HSCA (our files contain references to at least 15 other individuals named Robert Moore; without considerable additional information, we cannot make any positive identification). I am forwarding, on loan, our file on Grayson Lynch (A-19-44-94). You may wish to consult with DCD later with regard to releasing this individual from his obligation of secrecy.

Ruth Elliff

Attachments a/s

RELLIFF:wfc
Distribution:
O Addressee
1 DCD Chrono
1 Staff A
3 RElliff
5 Control

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

27 February 1976

SUBJECT: Grayston Lynch, ex-BKHERALD Staff Employee

1. John Greaney called on 26 February to advise that in his judgmer.t DCD's roll in this matter is finished. Greaney has sent this material to John Kennedy, NARCOG, who has advised John Werner, Drug Enforcement Agency, who will contact Lynch directly.

2. Mr. Greaney has contacted Lynch directly and notified him thạt Mr. Werner will be calling him. We, therefore, see no further action by DCD in this matter, and Mr. Knaysi has been so advised.

E. H. WATTS
Deputy Chief of Operations, DCD

EHW:jt
Distribution:
Orig. OC/DCD Chrono
1 Control

E2 IMPDET CL BY 018877

NFL-002-76
14 January 1976

Chief, Domestic Collection Division
ATTN: Deputy Chief of Operations-(Watts)
Chief, Miami Field Office

IDEN A, ex-BKHERALD Staff Employee.

1. We met with IDEN A, a retired BKHERALD staff employee, on 7 January 1976 at his home in Tampa, Florida. IDEN A had requested the meeting through contact with an attorney in IDEN B. IDEN A sroke for several hours about his life since retirement in 1971. What follows is a long summation of his comments, and at the memo's conclusion his reasons for bringing this situation to our attention. (Forwarded under Separate Cover].

2. IDEN A, who had a major role in the Bay of Pigs activities, and who was associated with JMHAVE during the period 1961-68, has maintained many contacts within the Cuban community in Florida. LNCOLLAR, which was aware of the involvement of some ex-BKHERALD assets (Cubans) in the drug importation business, had been unable to penetrate this group in the period to late 1973. IDEN A, in the meantime, had moved to Key West, Florida, purchased a lobster fishing boat and equipment, and become a respected member of the community.

3. In late 1973, a former BKHERALD asset (AMTABY Project) who had been terminated in 1963, IDEN C, came to IDEN A in Key West, claimed he had escaped from jail in Cuba in 1970 (where he had been jailed for drug running between Cuba and WODUAL), and said he had information on drug traffic. He asked IDEN A to contact someone in LNCOLLAR and indicate IDÈN C's willingness to be of assistance. IDEN A replied he was retired and could not help. A few months later, IDEN D (ANTABY-27), another former asset, flew to Key West from Miami. He met IDEN A and informed him LNCOLLAR had sent him down to check on IDEN C. IDEN D identified his LNCOLLAR contact as IDEN E, an ex-BKHERALD 'asset and former BKHERALD contract employee. At about this time IDEN F, a former BKHERALD staff employee, moved to Key West and informed IDEN A that LNCOLLAR was being staffed with BKHERALD employees in its Intelligence Division, and that the leader of the division was IDEN G, another ERMERALD staffer.

4. A few months later, IDEN A received a call from IDEN H, another BEHERALD retires, who asked about IDEN A's access to boats IDEN H wished to purchase for a relative of his wife, the relative residing in Venezuela. He photographed every boat in the Key West harbor, and it was apparent to IDEN A he was LNCCLEAR-involved. Later, IDEN F approached IDEN A and said

22 IMPDET CL BY 011668

NFL-002-75
PAGE 2

two EKIDRALD paupio in Filand wanted to meet with IDEN A. IDEN A agreed to a meeting, and IDEN F introduced IDEN I and IDEN E. IDEN-A know- IDEN I, but was aware of IDEE only by reputation, which was unsavory. IDEN E claimed to be a BKHERALD employee, as did IDER I. IDEN A, of course, knew otherwise, but said nothing. In March 1974, IDEN A got a call from IDEN J of the IDEN K, Miami. He was an ex-EKHERALD officer, and he said IDEN C wished to speak with IDEN A in Miami on an urgent basis.

5. IDEN G told IDEN A that he wanted the latter to work for LNCOLLAR to establish intelligence networks in the Cuban community in Key West. He said no one else could do it, and he promised to provide at the start US$100/week plus expenses plus money to pay IDEN A's agents. He said this money would not be reportable as income. When IDEN A asked about the effect of his own ex-BKHERALD status, IDEN G replied BKHERALD does not want or need to know of this arrangement. IDEN G acknowledged that US$100/week was a small payment, but said any information resulting in a seizure of drugs, the arrest of drug traffickers, or damage to drug rings will be assessed by a board within LNCOLLAR, and money (thousands of dollars) rewarded for this assistance. IDEN A would then be free to split the money with his agents. IDEN J, who was at the meeting, added that within a year IDEN A should be able to afford the best and largest lobster boat available.

6. IDEN G and IDEN J impressed IDEN A with the dangerous nature of his assignment. They stressed cover as the most important consideration, and IDEN G said, "I don't want to go to any more funerals". They added that if IDEN A got into trouble, there were 150 LNCOLLAR agents in Miami who would come to his aid instantly. IDEN A was given emergency telephone numbers and code names, and was told LNCOLLAR would arrange for his airlift out (through the LNTUCK Aar Station) if needed. If his LNCOLLAR affiliation was blown, IDEN G said there would be compensation provided up to US$40 thousand, as well as relocation assistance. The relocation assistance was not specified, but IDEN A assumed this meant six months living expenses and assistance in job search activities, as well as reimbursement for moving expenses. IDEN J and IDEN L, another ex-BKHERALD official, were to come to Key West one week later to brief IDEN A on the local situation. In the meantime, IDEN A was to prepare a report on what he knew about drug traffickers in the Key West area. Two weeks later, the two did appear in Key West. The little they knew about Key West drug activities was included in IDEN A's report, which also contained much additional data.

7. IDEN A subsequently set up an intelligence net, and began serding back reports. IDEN A was frequently summoned to Miami for meetings with IDEN G. Often these meetings were a waste of time, and on occasion IDEN G

NFL-002-76
PAGE 3.

would not even show up. At one point IDEN J asked IDEN A to write a paper on-the-capability of ex-BKHERALD assets who were drug traffickers, and who had been trained in infiltration and exfiltration, to penetrate WODUAL coastal defenses with drugs. IDEN A showed how the assets could circumvent any government effort to stop the drug traffic. The paper "scared LNCOLLAR to death," according to IDEN A. At the end of June 1974, IDEN Jasked IDEN A to journey to Washington to brief top LNCOLLAR officiala on his conclusions. It was to be an all expense paid trip, and IDEN A flew up and stayed one week. Total remuneration received for the journey was only US$150. During the week, IDEN A had many meetings with LDEN G and his deputy, IDEN M, a former IDEN N staff employee. IDEN G indicated at that time he was impressed with IDEN A's reports and access in Key West...

8. Leter, IDEN A cold IDEN G he had sent lots of reports, but there. had been no arrests, and therefore no bonuses. IDEN A said he would no longer work for just US$100/week. IDEN G replied he might be able to maka "IDEN A a LNCOLLAR consultant to protect his retired status. lle also promised-IDEN A a large lobster boat (taken from those confiscated in LNCOLLAR raids), and an additional US$500/month to meet expenses and agent payoffs. IDEN C also spoke of using. IDEN A in LNCOLLAR activities in Jamaica and South America. Nothing ever was forthcoming on ary of these matters. During this period, IDEN A also provided LNCOLLAR (at its requesc) with the names of potential sources of information in the Miami area. Several persons were approached by LNCOLLAR using IDEN A's name, and a number of former BKHERALD assets were picked up in this manner. Included in this group are IDEN O, IDEN P, and IDEN Q.

9. In May 1974, IDEN F came to IDEN A at a party and, while drunk, said he had heard IDEN G wanted to recruit IDEN A for LNCOLLAR activities. In June he made similar comments while at another social gathering. IDEN A made no comment (other than requesting that IDEN F shut up). When IDEN A was recruited by IDEN G and IDEN J, they had made quite a point of saying only they would be aware of IDEN A's LNCOLLAR ties. Later in June 1974, IDEN F said he knew IDEN A was working with INCOLLAR. In July 1974, IDEN G said he did not like having IDEN L, who was IDEN A's handling officer in Miami, dealing with him since IDEN L was known to be an LNCOLLAR officer. IDEN C wanted to have IDEN A deal directly with him in Washington, but IDEN A objected, saying the arrangement was too cumbersome. In late July, IDEN G introduced IDEN A to his new contact, IDEN I.

10. In November 1974, it became apparent the drug ring in Key West on which IUEN A's group was reporting was becoming spooked and overly cautious. Through several of his agents IDEN A learned this resulted

NFL-002-76
PAGE &

from a direct approach to the violators by LNCOLLAR officer IDES E. vho had come to Kay West unbeknownst to DEN A. Through friends in Miami IDEN A found out IDEN E was in charge of IDEN A's operation in Key West, had a homosexual relationship with IOEN F which went back for many years (and was responsible for the breakup of IDEN E's first marriage). had big real estate deals going in Miami, had a Swiss bank account, and was still using BKKERALD cover in Miami.

11. IDEN P, who was aware of IDEN E'S LINCOLLAR connection, and two other LNCOLLAR assets in the Miami area. had agreed to assist LNDULIAR only if LNCOLLAR officials could guarantee IDEN E would never know of their relationship or see any of their informant reports. IDEN I arranged for this through IDEN G, and the three agents' files were placed in IDEN N's safe. IDEN A subsequently has learned IDEN E routinely say ail of IDAN P's raporta. Later, when the revelations in the preceding paragraph were known, IDEN I told IDEN A there were many allegations about IDEN E, and that he had mentioned this to DEN G. IDEN C had assered hin he would be brought to Washington to discuss the matter, but nothing ever came of it. Ironically, IDEN E was taken into LNCOLLAR on the orders of LECOLLAR Director IDEN R, and it was specified that no clearance or background check would be undertaken on him.

12. IDEN I and IDEN A decided to approach IDEN F to learn more about IDEN E. During a one hour discussion, MEN F said he had been appointed the recruiting officer within BKHERALD for persons who wou'd go to LACOLLAR. IDEN F said he had known IDEN E for a long period of time, and had brought him along in BKHERALD hierarchy. IDEN A believes IDEN F also engineered the absence of a security check on IDEN Z by LACCLLAR since he did not want his homosexual relationship with IDEN E revealed. At that point IDEN A called IDEN G and filled him in on what had been learned, including IDEN F's admission that DEN E had told him IDEN A was an LNCOLLAR asset. IDEN G. denied knowing IDEN F, but said he would check on IDEN E. IDEN A met with DEN G the next day in Miami to fill him in further, and IDEN G ordered a full investigation. In the meantime, IDEN F told DEN E of his meeting with IDEN I and IDEN A, and IDEN Σ wrote a memorandum saying a fellow LNCOLLAR officer (IDEN I) had over stepped the bounds of propriety in his relationship with an LNCOLLAR asset (IDEN A), and that IDEN I and IDE A were ruaning an investigation on IDEN 5. IDEN E described the situation as "intolerable". The LACOLLAR inquiry, then, turned from IDEN E to improper actions by IDEN I in discussing an LNCOLLAR employee with an asset. The Internal Affairs section of LNCOLLAR did continue the IDEN E probe and concluded by May 1975 that the charges against IDEN & were accurate. In the meantime, IDEN I was interrogated by IDEN M on his relationship with IDEN A.

NFL-002-76
PAGE 3
:

13. 8. ii, la Cincome inen A that control of his operation was being transferred to the Miami regional office, and that his financial relationship with INCOLLAR would be terminated and then re-established locally following 1 September 1975. On 9 September 1975, a state-federal task force arrested 39 persons in Key West. IDEN A knew nothing about the arrests in advanca. He called IDEN G to find out what was happening, and IDEN G said he also was unaware of them. He asked IDEN A to continua reporting on these developmants. The next day IDEN A met with a source who told him someone had blown IDEN A's LACOLLAR affiliation to the drug ring. He described the leak as coming from an ex-BKHERALD officer who hated IDEN A. IDEN A's source, who was in touch with drug ring members, toid IDEN A the codename of his LNCOLLAR operation (IDEN S), and IDEN A. learned IDEN F had spread this word all over town. IDEN A subsequently received telephone death threats (one of the ring member's girl friend called to tell him a white LNCOLLAR informant (IDEN A) would not get out of town alive). There had been eight informant deaths in Monroe County (Key West) in 1975, all unsolved murders. There was every reason, then, to take the threats seriously. IDEN A informed LNCOLLAR about the threats. LNCOLLAR replied that. IDEN A was pushing the panic button, and askol for more information. IDEN A requested that the emergency evacuation apparatus be used, but LNCOLLAR refused. Finally, LNCOLLAR said "We don't know what you expect us to do since you've been terminated". IDEN A, who had been terminated by LNCOLLAR/Washington, had not been picked up subsequently by the Miami Regional Office.

14. IDEN A, desiring to keep a low profile, could not talk to many of his agents in Key West, but the fow he did reach were expecting a portion of the reward money since the ring that was rolled up was one the agents had reported on for many months. IDEN A checked with LNCOLLAR on this, and was informed his net's information was not used as tho basis for the arrests. IDEN A learned that IDEN F had passed the word around Key West that IDEN A was not an LNCOLLAR staff employee, which made DEN A fair game for removal. He also learned plans had been made locally for his murder. At that point, IDEN A then made his escape with his wife. In Miami, he mot with IDEN M. IDEN H claimed IDEN E had not caused any of the problems IDEN A had experienced. Concerning money assurances, IDEN M first denied any promises had been made. Later he said any that had been made (by IDEN G) were unauthorized. Ha reiterated IDEI A's reporting, although accurate, was not used in the arrests. LACOLLAR agreed to provide LDEN A with US$1800 for all his problems, and raised the sum later to US$3 thousand. IDEN A accepted the money, but did not indicate he was satisfied with this sum.

15. IWEN A snuck back into Key West and packed his household goods in one evening. liis boat was given to a fish supply house to sell. Sinca he owed the company money for supplies he had purchased, the rish house

NFL-002-76
PAGE 6

sold the boat for a sum equal to his debts. IDEN A's wife quit her job without notice, and he estimates his actual financial losses are US$25 thousand. LICOLLAR has indicated the US$3 thousand paywant is "all IDEN A will get", and he is determined to get more.

16. IDEN A believes many of his agents think he did receive a payoff from LNCOLLAR following the arrests, and that he took all the money and ran, leaving then axposol in Key West. The cars of two of his agents were burned, and IDEN D, IDEN P. and others in the Miami area quit working for LNCOLLAR when they learned of the treatment he had received and/or received death threats themselves. IDENT. As a result, IDEN A cannot return to Key Wost, and his lobster business no longer exists.

17. The purpose of IDEN A's contacting the RKHERALD is first to let us know what has happened to many of its former employees and assets. IDEN A believes BKHERALD should know of the false provises that were used to lure some BKHERALD employees to work at LNCOLLAR. As documentation, he provided IDEN l'a grievance letter to INCOLLAR which is attached and for retention. IDEN I has, incidentally, been taken out of the Intelligence Division of LACOLLAR and placed in enforcement work in Miami. IDEN I 1s currently seeking to return to BKHERALD employment, and IDEN A says IDEN I will verify his statements on the treatment of BKHERALD personnel who transferred to LICOLLAR. (IDEN I's home phone in Miami is IDEN I.) He and the other ex-BKHERALD employees working at a lower level ara fed up with LNCOLLAR, and are convinced they will never receive fair treatment in that organization. Since IDEN A believes the recruitment of BKHERALD officers to switch to LNCOLLAR will be a continuing thing, he feals we should know the realities of life in LNCOLLAR.

*[Forwarded Separately)
18. In addition, he notes LNCOLLAR is using many retired BKHERALD people and former BKHERALD assets in its activities. IDEN A believes these persons, in many instances, are being both used and abused. Any flap which occurs as a result of LACOLLAR mismanagement will bounce back on BRIERALD, since it appears BKHERALD is involved in the LICOLLAR operation. Indeed, IDEN G has given the impression his activities have been cleared with and approved by BKHERALD. Those assets who are being turned off by LNCOLLAR mismanagement are going to be lost to BEHERALD es well as to LSCOLLAR. Some of these persons could be significant asseis 14 years to come.

19. A flap may not be so far off. In recent weeks IDEN U, whe 18 writing a book about the role of the Cubans IDEN V and IDEN W in the IDEN X affair, called IDEN A and said he has information that IDEN G's wife and IDEN Y's business manager made a trip to Florida recently. Also IDEN U said he hae learned that a former BKMERALD man who is a

NFL-002-76
PAGE 7

LNCOLLAR agent is a honosexual, and that US$15 thousand in LNCOLLAR funda vare given to someone in Mizal to bail out a Puerto Rican drug dealer. The investigation of DE 2 by INCOLLAR internal affairs did reveal, according to IDEN A, that Ust15 thousand could not be accounted for by IDEN E, whose career appears to have bean unaffected by the invescigatiou. IDEN U, who obviously has a source within LNCOLLAR, also told IDEN A about many of the individuals (by name) in LNCOLLAR who are formarly BKHERALD employees.

20. IDEN U's information appears to be accurate, according to IDEN A, who recalle receiving a telephone call from IDEN G in July 1975. IDEN G was agitated, and asked IDEN A to handle a matter for him quickly and quietly. He said his wife, children, and the business agent of IDEN Y were in Kay West, and were supposed to stay in the apartment of a retired' BKHERALD employee named IDEN Z (formerly with IDEN AA). IDEN Z, a friend of IDEN F, had left the area and gave his apartment, key to IDEN F. When IDEN C's wife and the others arrived in Key West, theyccould not locate IDEN F to get the koy. IDEN C asked IDEN A to find out what they were doing, "and just how far my neck is stuck out". IDEN A learned they had checked into a local motel. He called IDEM G and passed on this information. IDEN G was relieved, but asked IDEM A to keep an eye on them and report their movements to him. Subsequently, while on a trip to Miami, IDEN A was approached by an LNCOLLAR officer in Internal Affairs. This individual said the episode was under active investigation, and asked IDEN A what he knew noout it.

21. Finally, IDEN A is giving EXHERALD an opportunity to provide whatever advice, guidance, and assistance it wishes to furnish before he takes further action to obtain just compensation from LNCOLLAR. He is thinking in terms of possible BKKERALD intervention on his behalf with LNCOLLAR. He recognizes AKAZRALD may wish to let him fend for himself. In that event, he plans to approach IDEN BB in Tampa to reveal the above story, and seak IDEN BB's assistance in petitioning LNCOLLAR fof financial relief. He will not take any action with IDEN BB until he has heard from BEKHERALD. Since be is anxious to get started on this matter, a speedy reply to his request for assistance will de appreciated.

22. IDEN A, incidentally, has docided to remain in Tampa, and has obtained a job as chief investigator for a local private security service. We indicated a reply would be forthcoming either through us or directly to IDEN A. His phone number is IDEN A. He resides at IDEN A.

BJknaysi: paw
Separate Cover Attachment to Follow

BRUCE E. MAINHARISG

CONFIDENTIAL 1614232 JAR 76 STAFF
CHE SCO/MIAMI 13076
DOD/ASHINGION
ATINI DEPUTY CHIEF OF OPERATIONS CRATES
SUBJ: DEITIES IN NAL-APE-76 DATES 14 JANUARY 1976 FORU
IS POUCH 10. 234

IDES A GRAYGILLYNCH, 8719 BAY POINT DRIVE, TAMPA, FLOA
PHONE USER: 613-884-6618
IDEN 3 OFFICE OF GENERAL COUNCIL
IDEC GUSTAVO FERNANDEZ
IDEN D - AVADO CANTILLO
IDENE ROBERT MEDELLL
IDEF GEORGE OFICINAND JERRY">
IDEN ALUCIS CONTEN
IDEA - BENEDICT MATICH
1984 I GARY HATTOCKS, PHONE HINGER 279-0945
IDEX J- JILLIAN LOGAYL
IDEN K - DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
IDER L - NIKE BRUN
1080 - BUREAU OF NARCOTICS
IMER O - RAFAIL GARCIA
1984 P - GONZALO HERRERA
BCTC JULIO PESTOSTI
- 131
1-ESSAL

PAGE 2 DEO/SIASI 13076
IDEA S- (GRAY GHOST)

DEJT THE DRUG RING THAT WAS ROLLED UP VAS A MULTI-MILLION
DOLLAR OPERAT 10%, THE GROUP HAD A COUNTER HOTELLIGENCE
BUDGET OF ABOUT USSONE MILLION ANGUALLY, AP-INCLUDED
(EITHER AS ACTIVE RING FEDERS OR VITTIG 07 ITS
ACTIVITIES TE SON OF THE CHIEF OF POLICE IN FEY VEST,
THE STATE'S ATTORNEY, THE SHERIFF AD CHIEF OF POLICE,
THREE PENJERG OF THE CITY COUNCIL, THE ENTIRE POLICE
DEPARTMENT, OVER HALF OF THE CHERIFF'S DEPARTBEAT, THE
FIRE CHIEF, ALO VARIOUS CITY AND COUNTY OFFICIAS. THE
RING ALSO RAR THE PROSTITUTION, NORDERS, AD THIET BIGS
IN THE AREA. WHILE SOME OF THESE PERSONS WERE ARRESTED
(THE FLUE CHIEF, FOR ONE), OTHERS WERE NOT, AND ALL ARE
FREE OR BAIL AT THIS. TINE.

IDES V - SERWARD L. BARKER
IDEN - EUGENIOR. MARTINEZ
1024 X - WATERGATE
IDEN Y MADAR NHIL
IDEN Z - RALPH JOHNSON
IDEN AA - V80
DES BR CONGRESSMAN SAN GIBBONS

NFL-002-76
PAGE 7
LNCOLLAR agent is a honosexual, and that US$15 thousand in LNCOLLAR funds vare given to someone in Mizal to bail out a Puerto Rican drug dealer. The investigation of DE 2 by INCOLLAR internal affairs did reveal, according to IDEN A, that Ust15 thousand could not be accounted for by IDEN E, whose career appears to have bean unaffected by the invescigatiou. IDEN U, who obviously has a source within LNCOLLAR, also told IDEN A about many of the individuals (by name) in LNCOLLAR who are formarly BKHERALD employees.

20. IDEN U's information appears to be accurate, according to IDEN A, who recalle receiving a telephone call from IDEN G in July 1975. IDEN G was agitated, and asked IDEN A to handle a matter for him quickly and quietly. He said his wife, children, and the business agent of IDEN Y were in Kay West, and were supposed to stay in the apartment of a retired' BKHERALD employee named IDEN Z (formerly with IDEN AA). IDEN Z, a friend of IDEN F, had left the area and gave his apartment, key to IDEN F. When IDEN C's wife and the others arrived in Key West, theyccould not locate IDEN F to get the koy. IDEN C asked IDEN A to find out what they were doing, "and just how far my neck is stuck out". IDEN A learned they had checked into a local motel. He called IDEM G and passed on this information. IDEN G was relieved, but asked IDEM A to keep an eye on them and report their movements to him. Subsequently, while on a trip to Miami, IDEN A was approached by an LNCOLLAR officer in Internal Affairs. This individual said the episode was under active investigation, and asked IDEN A what he knew noout it.

21. Finally, IDEN A is giving EXHERALD an opportunity to provide whatever advice, guidance, and assistance it wishes to furnish before he takes further action to obtain just compensation from LNCOLLAR. He is thinking in terms of possible BKKERALD intervention on his behalf with LNCOLLAR. He recognizes AKAZRALD may wish to let him fend for himself. In that event, he plans to approach IDEN BB in Tampa to reveal the above story, and seak IDEN BB's assistance in petitioning LNCOLLAR fof financial relief. He will not take any action with IDEN BB until he has heard from BEKHERALD. Since be is anxious to get started on this matter, a speedy reply to his request for assistance will de appreciated.

22. IDEN A, incidentally, has docided to remain in Tampa, and has obtained a job as chief investigator for a local private security service. We indicated a reply would be forthcoming either through us or directly to IDEN A. His phone number is IDEN A. He resides at IDEN A.

BJknaysi: paw
Separate Cover Attachment to Follow

BRUCE E. MAINHARISG

ORIGINATOR, AND FIELD NO.
Knaysi/NFL 2-76
XX DIVISION SOURCE AND CHRONO
SUBJGAT FILES AND CHRONO, FILE
SUBJECT
Memo: Grayston Lynch, ex-BKHARALD Staff Employee

ROUTING | DATE | INITIALS | REMARKS
---|---|---|---
Mr. Watts | 4 It | w | 20 A61976: Jelam, Francis thas posted to Jelem Kennedy - l'ARCOG Atic in
Claps | M | Jurn will inform DEA, tiore in
C/DCD | | JOHN Greaney's Kew, it belongs
Jeane | 27 Fet | it | When he hears from DEA We will
| | | in foron LyncHhne hove

FILES DISPOSITION
2 Contine

TO : Chief, Domestic Collection Division
ATTN : Deputy Chief of Operations (Watts)
FROM : Chief, Miami Field Office
SUBJECT: IDEN A, ex-BKHERALD Staff Employee

1. We met with IDEN A, a retired BKHERALD staff employee, on 7
January 1976 at his home in Tampa, Florida. IDEN A had requested the
meeting through contact with an attorney in IDEN B. IDEN A spoke for
several hours about his life since retirement in 1971. What follows is
a long summation of his comments, and at the mero's conclusion his reasons
for bringing this situation to our attention. (Forwarded under Separate Cover).

2. IDEN A, who had a major role in the Bay of Pigs activities, and
who was associated with JMWAVE during the period 1961-68, has maintained
many contacts within the Cuban community in Florida. LNCOLLAR, which
was aware of the involvement of some ex-BKHERALD assets (Cubans) in the
drug importation business, had been unable to penetrate this group in
the period to late 1973. IDEN A, in the meantime, had moved to Key West,
Florida, purchased a lobster fishing boat and equipment, and become a
respected member of the community.

3. In late 1973, a former BKHERALD asset (AMTABY Project) who had
been terminated in 1963, IDEN C, came to IDEN A in Key West, claimed he
had escaped from jail in Cuba in 1970 (where he had been jailed for drug
running between Cuba and WODUAL), and said he had information on drug
traffic. He asked IDEN. A to contact someone in LNCOLLAR and indicate
IDEN C's willingness to be of assistance. IDEN A replied he was retired
and could not help. A few months later, IDEN D (AMTABY-27), another
former asset, flew to Key West from Miami. He met IDEN A and informed
him LNCOLLAR had sent him down to check on IDEN C. IDEN D identified
his LNCOLLAR contact as IDEN E, an ex-BKHERALD asset and former BKHERALD
contract employee. At about this time IDEN F, a former BKHERALD staff
employee, moved to Key West and informed IDEN A that LNCOLLAR was being
staffed with BKHERAID employees in its Intelligence Division, and that
the leader of the division was IDEN G, another BKHERALD staffer.

4. A few months later, IDEN A received a call from IDEN H, another
BKHERALD retiree, who asked about IDEN A's access to boats IDEN H wished
to purchase for a relative of his wife, the relative residing in Venezuela.
He photographed every boat in the Key West harbor, and it was apparent to
IDEN A he was LNCOLLAR-involved. Later, IDEN F approached IDEN A and said

E2 IMPDET CL BY 011668
CONFIDENTIAL
Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

14-00000
CONFIDENTIAL
NFL-002-76
PAGE 2

IDEN A knew
was unsavory.