14-00000
104-10220-10069

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWLD AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MENDERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: POSADA, LUIS CLEALELTE
C-300985
You. I

INCLUSIVE DATES: 
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: CI/OA

ROOM: 
DELETIONS, IF ANY: DEGREE OF SECURITY MATERIAL

DATE DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIA
NOT REVIEWED BY HSCA

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR RENOVAD FROR THIS FILE

14-00000
171 MPO 2:76
029
FABIC SEC DISSE BY 
1 11430UNIT NO FILO
AF FILE 
VR
ADVANCE COP SUPS/LOTTED 
ALTION UNI?
LAS ACTION 240
SECRET
IPLAN, C14, clops,
PS/E62, 656, 056/00
7 29 96 44 ΕΙ Α6 93 PAGE 01-01
TOR:1322202 OCT 76
SECRET 1322162 OCT 76 STAFF
CITE CARACAS 31115
TOI PRIORITY DIRECTOR.
WN INTEL AKULE

REPRODUCTION OY OTHER THAY
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
STAF PRECEDENGE
IN 06 78 46
CARA 31115

1. FYI, STATION HAS RECEIVED REPORTS FROM SEVERAL SOURCES
WHICH INDICATE ALMOST CERTAINLY THAT WKSCARLET-3 WAS ARRESTED BY
DISIP 12 OCTOBER AND IS BEING DETAINED UNDER SUSPICION OF
INVOLVEMENT IN THE 6 OCTOBER DESTRUCTION OF CUBANA AIRCRAFT NEAR
BARBADOS, ALSO, THAT WK SCARLET 3'S OFFICE WAS RAIDED AND ALL
FILES CONFISCATED MORNING 13 OCTOBER.
2, FILE! 201-2300985, E2 IMPDET.

.. SECRET
:

14-00000
Office of Security
Polygraph Results, 29 June 1973.
Subject: 211. 300985

14-00000
1
PHILIP SHARE
/3/
1575
5.1973
CICLE SI COLTATHAT DIGHAMINAΓΙΟΝ 
じいげ
WHE FIR TNFワ
MEGANE FOEM
TUTAL
SECRET
RT AND INDIA INDY
INCEA
300785
NO INDEX 
RETURN TO 
DRANCH 
FILE IN CA FILE NO.
PILE. VI. 1/ CUR/EL
FILLK HID
pkol
1 (cetalication)
SECRET
-
To FPRIORITY CARACAS INFO ROME.
UKRALLY WKSCARLET
(dete and timme lites)
felltal
Trolerence
52373 21 72
CITE DIRECTOR
rence nun her)
367030
REF: CARACAS 21092 |IN 8236471*

1. AFTER CAREFUL RECONSIDERATION, BELIEVE IN VIEW CONSIDERABLE
FLAP POTENTIAL THAT WKSCARLET-3 SHOULD NOT DE MET IN ROME.C
REALIZE THAT HE COULD PRODUCE SOME INTERESTING INTEL FROM THIS
TIMELINESS OF
OP BUT DO NOT FEEL IN THIS INSTANCE THAT AREPORTING WORTH RISK
INVOLVED.

2. 2
SUGGEST YOU TELL UKSÇARLET-3 CONTACT CANCELLED BECAUSE
ROME CASE OFFICER EUCRU CICE WHO WOULD HAVE NET HIM EXPECTS Bε
OUT OF TOUN AT TIME OF WKSCARLET J'S VISIT AND NO OTHER APPROPRIUATE
CONTACT AVAILABLE.
197
3. FILE 201-300945 75-2-16/3. ER INPDET A
*REPORTED ON WKSCARLET-3 TRIP TO ROME TO BUG COLONBIAN DELEGATION TO
COLOMBIAN-VENEZUELAN BORDER TALKS.
E/LAR PEAKE (TELECOORD
/WHIFI che
THEODORE G. SHACKLE
C/UHD
RELEASING OFFICER
Celly
RICHARD L. CONOLLY
C/WH/3
COCIOLOMATING OFFICERS
SECRET
C. CLAJくりされます
۸۲۵۹
REFPOCUCHOF BY CINER SURGONCAD.
15750SUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
COSY NO.
5
3
2
1

14-00000
SECRET
CLASSIFIED BY OF
201 PERSONALITY FILE ACTION REÇUEST
(Please Type)
TO: IP/201 Section Room GA-20 Tube Address: Di
OFFICE DE
(CSN 5-30)
MUBN
FRCH: Nancy L Davis
1.* 2.
OPEN 201
TYPE OF FILE CONTROL
TYPE OF ACTION
(Select Only One)
ΑΜΕΝΟ 20
ADD CRYPTONYM
CANCEL CRYPTONYM
4. TRUE NAME
(LAST.)
Surplementary Farlanatory Notes For Those Item.
Beth An Actorisk (*) Following the Item Number
Aro Contained on the Reverse Side
ROOM
3R 2627
DATE
24
25 Sopt 72
TUBE ADDRESS
PHONE
4522
BS-4
(IP Use Only
(Select Only One)
NOLO UNRESTRICTED IN IP/FILES
HOLD IN IP/FILES BUT RESTRICT TO DESK
FERMANENTLY CHANGE TO DESK
3. ENTER CRYPTONYM(S) ONLY OF CRYPTONYM ACTION HAS BEEN INDICATED IN ITEM.
USE ONE COPY OF FORM AND COMPLETE ITEMS 3, 14, 15, 16, AND 21. DO NOT INCLUDE
TRUE NAME INFORMATION.
SUPERSEDED CRYPTONYM CIFENCE/4
(Firet)
(Middle)
NEW CRYPTONYMWKSCARLET/3
B. 201 NUMDER
८300985
8. NAME VARIANTS AND TELECODES (For Type. Use A For Alles, V for Variant or AKA. M For Maiden)
TYPE
1.
SEX
(LAST.)
(Circle One)
4
٥٠
(Firat)
DATE OF BIRTH,
IF CIRCA CHECK BOX
9. COUNTRY AND CITY/TOON PROVINCE OF BIRTH
DAY
MONTH
YEAR
10. CITIZENSHIP
(IP Lise Only) 11. OCCUPATION
14. INTELLIGENCE AFFILIATIONIS) OR TARGET ORGANIZATION(S)
15. COUNTRY OF LOCATION
VENE
17. CITE FILLO ADUSESSEES TO RECEIVE INDEX CARDS
18. DOCUMENT SYMBOL,
20. SUMMARY TEAT FOR
INDEX RECORDS.
13. 01 Corrist 14. ACTION DCSK
VEN
IF Use Oniv) IS. INTEREST DLSK
VENE
(Middle)
CODL
(IP Uee Only)
(IP Uad Only)
VENE
CODE
(IP Use Only)
(IP Use Only)
NUMBER
DATE
DAY
YR 18. COUNTRY, STATE, CITY/TOWN OF LOCATION
Do not include Cryptonyme. If space.
(Inaart additional identifying and deacceptive data.
record dosired, provide spouse dio deta hore procuted by "Code R.")
21. SIGNATURE OF AFOCESTER
Mancy L. Dievin
FORM
5-72
831
F2
SECRET
וסי
22. 201 NUMBER
0300985
WARNING - SISAM
136-51)

14-00000
:
}
SECRET
!
No.
:
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, 11/3/Vy in
Operational Approval is hereby granted in the case of
dated Da follhds:
for the purpose specified in your request
milatezni penetretion of CRASH,
This Approval is based upon evaluation of information available to this
Office, and is granted under authority contained in CST and CS1-F 10-2
Lee Portan
οι θεάηθοπλαFTMOANT SUPPORT DIVISION
CL
Date:
1044
1-07 124
SECRET
1600
AMADISE PREVIOUS FORTIONS
(0)

14-00000
SECRET
FILE NO.
300955
NOTICE TO: DIVISION PERSONNEL REVIEWING THIS FILE
Please complete the following steps:
1. NAME OF REVIEWER (please print)
NANSY L DAVIS
2. OFFICE DESIGNATION OF REVIEWER:
WH/3/v
3. DATE OF REVIEW
10 JULY 22
4. Do you contemplate dissemination of information reviewed: NO
to field
to another US Government Agency (if so, to whom)
The dissemination of any Office of Security investigative information,
including FBI reports, wust be coordinated with CI/OA and the Office
of Security.
5. Comments:
FORM
6-70
3230
DO NOT REMOVE THE ATTACHED FOLDER FROM CI/OA
SECRET
[13-21-40)

14-00000
:
SECRET
CATE
REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW
10:
201 NO.
FROM: CHIEF, CHHA
SUBJECTI
i
IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPROVAL IN THIS CASE, IT 15 REQUESTED
THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELOW, OR REVIEW INFORMATION AS INDICATED.
PRO 1
PRO 11
PIFLO TRACES
NI TRACES (Incl. COMINT)
OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES (Inel. COMINT)
RESULTS OF TECHNICAL INTERROGATION
U.S. COMINT TRACES
NEVIEW OF SECURITY OFF, REPORT AT-CI/DA
REVIEW OF FOI REPORT AT CI/OA
OTHERS (See Romarks)
NOTICEI
REMARKS
FORM
7-71
889
FIRST
SECOND
THIND AND FINAL
SECRET
(20-38)

14-00000
Office of Security Investigative Report
26 April 1972
Subject: 319235
&

14-00000
:
SECRET
REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION AND/OR NAME CHECK
TO: Deputy Director Security, 106
FROM: Chier, C1/Operations) Approval
and Support Divisio
PROJECT A
SUBJECT:
201
300985 SO
TYPE OF REQUEST
POA
CA
xx
xx
CNC
$1
SA
USE OF SUBJECT
Informant
DATS
300985
19 January 1972 JR
WH/3/V
Venezuela
FRI CHECK RESULTS AV
хяxAng
tophing since 16-Ang: 1967 (DATO)
L6
SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS (Limitatione on Investigation, cover protest, etc.)
IP
NDI
ATTACHMENTS
REMARKS
DIVISION (Include comint)
NDI
PIELD
NDI
アロリ/PANTI
PARTIAL 010
SO# 319235,
T/N: POSADA Carriles, Luis Clessate
DPOB: 15 February 1928, Cienfuegos, Cuba
CAS/ISG
NR
OTHER
C
CHIRP, CIDA
ENDORSEMENT
TO: Chief, CI/OA
FROM: Deputy Director Security, 100
DATE 2012.
1. 05 faiices reviita: 05# 31923.5 - No info sine "/1
32. Checks were conducted at the inifcates Agencies with negative results:
FRI
ONL
ACHT
STATE
FP
CEC HCUA CSI
I&
REMARKS
3.
Checks were conducted at the following Agency(ies) with positive results,
reports attachei
fish
CT
4. Domestic Field Investigation has been completed, 1 reports attached.
5. Domestic Fieli -nvestigation ravorable, resorts will follow within 60 jeys.
USE PALIOUS
FORM
11-71
693
KOITIONS
20 cl Ta
DEPUTY DIRECTOY SECURITY, 105
SECRET
1
