10.00000
104-10337-10001
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington DC 20505

April 1992

The Honorable John Conyers, Jr.
Chairman
Committee on Government Operations
House of Representatives
Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear Mr. Chairman:

The Director has asked me to respond to your letter of
April 6, 1992 requesting certain information regarding CIA
holdings of records related to the assassination of
President Kennedy. We do have a significant number of records
relating to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy,
although many of these records were originated by the FBI or
by investigating committees of the Congress. We believe that
a significant portion of our records could be released if H.J.
Resolution 454 were enacted into law.

I should also point out that the Central Intelligence
Agency is currently embarking on its own review of
assassination records. I would expect that this review will
result in the public release of a significant body of
information.

To help the committee understand the nature and number of
CIA records pertaining to the assassination, I am enclosing
the answers to the specific questions you raised in your
letter.

Sincerely,

Stanley M. Moskowitz
Director of Congressional Affairs

Enclosure

13-00000

The Honorable John Conyers, Jr.
SUBJECT: Agency Records on the JFK Assassination

OCA/LEG/DMPearline:rw 23 April 1992 (OCA 1123-92)
(OCA 1123-92/1)
(OCA 1123-92/2)

Original - Addressee (w/enclos)
1 - DCI
1 - DDCI
1 - ExDir
1 - ER
1 - D/OCA (w/enclos)
1 - DMPearline Signer (w/enclos)
1 - OCA/LEG Subject File (w/enclos)
1 - OCA Record (w/enclos)
1 - D/Center for the Study of Intelligence (w/enclos)

13-00000

OCA 1123-92

1. Did the CIA retain possession of records requested by
or developed on behalf of the House Select Committee on
Assassinations? If so, how many pages of such records does
the Agency have in its possession? What is the nature of
these records?

Yes, the CIA retained possession of records requested by
or developed on behalf of the House Select Committee on
Assassinations (HSCA). The Agency has approximately 300,000
pages of such records which include microfilm of CIA's Oswald
file (originally collected in response to the Warren
Commission's inquiry, then added to) as well as records
collected in response to specific requests from the HSCA.
Although these records cover a wide variety of topics, they
principally focus on CIA operations against Cuba and Castro,
Lee Harvey Oswald's sojourn in the USSR, and Oswald's
activities in Mexico City and New Orleans. The vast majority
of documents pertaining to Oswald were created in response to
specific inquiries from the Warren Commission and HSCA. They
also include a large number of name traces requested by the
HSCA staff, as well as materials relating to the Garrison
investigation, Watergate, Cuban exile activities, and copies
of FBI reports relating to Oswald. Because the HSCA was also
investigating the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King,
Jr., there is also some material on the Black Panthers and the
civil rights movement.

2. Does the CIA have records outside of those related to
the HSCA that may be considered relevant to the assassination
of President Kennedy? If so, please describe such records and
the approximate number of pages.

The CIA responded to requests from the Warren Commission
and the HSCA (approximately 300,000 pages, see above). The
CIA has never, however, attempted to locate every document
bearing on every conceivable angle or theory relating to the
assassination of President John F. Kennedy. If the Agency
were asked to explore newly advanced theories the search for
documents could be a rather large undertaking involving the
review of thousands of additional documents. To conduct any
further search, CIA would require specific guidelines
describing the kinds of records sought.

3. Did any of the records described in questions 1 and 2
originate with the FBI? If so, approximately how many?

We believe that between 40 percent and 50-percent of the
records described in questions 1 and 2 originated with the
FBI.

1

13-00000

4. Did any of these records originate with any other
Federal, foreign, state, or local agency? If so, please
describe which agencies and the approximate numbers.

A small number of CIA's records pertaining to the
assassination of JFK, probably less than 5%, originated with
the State Department and the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. Another small number of records, also less than 5%,
are original HSCA records stating Committee requests to CIA.

5. How many of these records have been reviewed for
release under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)? How many
of these records have been released pursuant to such requests?

CIA has released 7,432 pages of records pertaining to the
assassination of JFK, representing 1,969 documents, under the
FOIA. There is no documentation of how many JFK assassination
records CIA has reviewed under FOIA.

6. In the estimation of the CIA, approximately how many
records would be released under the standards contained in
House Joint Resolution 454?

It is very difficult to estimate the number of documents
that would be released if the Joint Resolution passed because
consideration for protection of classified information and
other sensitive categories of information would be required on
a document by document basis. We would review our holdings
carefully to ensure that the maximum amount of information is
released, consistent with the DCI's responsibility to protect
intelligence sources and methods and with privacy interests of
individuals involved.

2

13-00000
HPR 21 6 11.

UNCLASSIFIED

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
DCI History Staff
316 Ames Building
Washington, D.C. 20505
Phone (703) 351-2621

FACSIMILE TRANSMISSION COVER SHEET

TRANSMITTED DATE: 4/21/92 PAGES TRANSMITTED 8
(cover sheet included)

TRANSMITTED TO:

NAME: JOHN PEREIRA
ORGANIZATION: OGC
BLDG, ROOM
TELE/EXT: 76160 (FAX 874 3208)
SUBJECT: OCA LETTER (W/ENCL) & INR MEMO (W/O ATT.)
& CIANS DRAFT MOU WITH STATE

TRANSMITTED FROM:

NAME: KEN MCDONALD
BLDG, ROOM: 316 AMES
TELE/EXT: 30147 (FAX 522 9280)

MESSAGE:

Folm - The OCA letter (which Doved Pearlice
sent us yesterday) has muggested changes
on it. I think I sent you an earliөт
draft of our proposed access memo of under-
standing with state, to which the Wilcox
memo refers

Ken

UNCLASSIFIED

13-00000

Central Intelligence Agency
Washingon D. C. 30505

The Honorable John Conyers, Jr.
Chairman
Committee on Government Operations
United States House of Representatives
Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear Mr. Chairman:

The Director has asked me to respond to your letter of
6 April requesting certain information regarding CIA holdings
of records related to the assassination of President Kennedy.
We do have a significant number of records relating to the
assassination of President John F. Kennedy, although many of
these records were originated by the FBI or by investigating
committees of the Congress. We believe that a significant
portion of our records could be released if H.J. Resolutin 454
were enacted into law.

I should also point out that the Central Intelligence
Agency is currently embarking on its own review of
assassination records. I would expect that this review will
result in the public release of a significant body of
information.

To help the committee understand the nature and number of
CIA records pertaining to the assassination, I am enclosing
the answers to the specific questions you raised in your
letter.

Sincerely,

Stanley M. Moskowitz
Director of Congressional Affairs

Enclosure

13-00000

CL

1. Did the CIA retain possession of records requested by
or developed on behalf of the House Select Committee on
Assassinations? If so, how many pages of such records does
the Agency have in its possession? What is the nature of
these records?

Yes, the CIA retained possession of records requested by
or developed on behalf of the House Select Committee on
Assassinations (HSCA). The Agency has approximately 300,000
pages of such records which consist of microfilm of CIA'S Oswald
file (originally collected in response to the Warren
Commission's inquiry, then added to) as well as recorda collected in
response to specific requests from the House Select Committee
on Assassinations. Although these records cover a wide
variety of topics, they principally focus on CIA operations
against Cuba and Castro, Lee Harvey Oswald's sojourn in the
USSR, and Oswald's activities in Mexico City and New Orleans.
They also include a large number of names traces requested by
the HSCA staff, as well as materials relating to the Garrison
investigation, Watergate, Cuban exile activities, and copies
of FBI reports relating to Oswald. Because the HSCA was also
investigating the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King,
Jr., there is also some material on the Black Panthers and the
civil rights movement.

2. Does the CIA have records outside of those related to
the House Assassinations Committee that may be considered
relevant to the assassination of President Kennedy? If so,
please describe such records and the approximate number of
pages.

The CIA responded to requests from the warren Commission
and the House Select Committee on Assassinations
(approximately 300,000 pages, see above). The CIA has never,
however, attempted to locate every document bearing on every
conceivable angle or theory relating to the assassination of
President John F. Kennedy. To conduct any further search, CIA
would require specific guidelines of the kinds of records
sought.

3. Did any of the records described in questions 1 and 2
originate with the Federal Bureau of Investigation? If so,
approximately how many?

We believe that between 40% and 50% of the records
described in questions 1 and 2 originated with the Federal
Bureau of Investigation.

1

13-00000

4. Did any of these records originate with any other
Federal, foreign, state, or local agency? If so, please
describe which agencies and the approximate numbers.

A small number of CIA'S JFK assassination records,
probably less than 5%, originated with the State Department
and the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Another small
number of records, also less than 5%, are original HSCA
records stating Committee requests to CIA.

5. How many of these records have been reviewed for
release under the Freedom of Information Act? How many of
these records have been released pursuant to such requests?

CIA has released 7,432 pages of JFK assassination
records, representing 1,969 documents, under the Freedom of
Information Act. There is no documentation of how many JFK
assassination records CIA has reviewed under FOIA.

6. In the estimation of the CIA, approximately how many
records would he released under the standards contained in
House Joint Resolution 454?

It is very difficult to estimate the number of documents
that would be released if the Joint Resolution passed. We
would review our holdings carefully to ensure that the maximum
amount of information is released, consistent with the DCI'B
responsibility to protect intelligence sources and methods.

2

13-00000

SAM NUNH, GEORGIA
CARLEVEN, MIHIGAN
JIM SASGER, TENNESSEE
DAVIO PRYOR ARKANSAS
HERBERT KOHL WISCONSIN
GHN GLENN OHIC CHAIRMAN
JOSEPH & LIEBERMAN, CONNECTICUY
DANIEL & AKAKA, HAWAII
:
WILLIAM OF DELAWARE
TED SEVENS, ALASKA
WILLIAM & COMCH. WANE
WARREN & RUOMAN, NIW HAMPSHIRE
JOHN SEYMOUR CALIFORNIA
LEONARO WEISS, STAFF DIAЕСТОЛ
FRANKLIN C. POLK, MINGRITY STAAF DIRECTOR AND CHIEF COUNEEL

United States Senate

The Honorable Robert M. Gates
Director
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 20505

Dear Director Gates:

COMMITTEE ON
GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
WASHINGTON, DC 20510-6250

April 14, 1992

CIA HAS NO CEJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICADOR
F.4
RELESS RIMATION
IN THIS LICU、こす
20 APR 1992
I am please to learn that you will be testifying before
ER 92-1316
the Committee on Governmental Affairs on Tuesday, May 12,
1992. The hearing will begin at 9:00 a.m. and be held in Room
342 of the Dirksen Senate Building. The subject of the hearing
will be the "Assassination Materials Disclosure Act of 1992."
The legislation proposes to create an independent review board
to govern and coordinate the release of government information
relevant to the assassination of former President John F.
Kennedy. As required by Commmittee rules, please have 100
copies of your written testimony delivered to the Committee by
close of business, Friday, May 8, 1992. While your written
testimony may be as long as you wish, please plan to limit
your spoken testimony to five to seven minutes in length.

Your testimony will be extremely helpful to the Committee
and to the Congress as it considers this important
legislation. While you may discuss whatever aspects of the
legislation you desire, particularly how it relates to the
records and resources of your agency, the Committee would
appreciate learning your views on several specific subjects:

What are the reasons which the Central Intelligence
Agency has records related to the assassination of
President Kennedy?

What have the methods been to date for the identification
and definition of Central Intelligence Agency records as
material related to the assassination of President
Kennedy?

What steps has the Central Intelligence Agency made to
assess the scope of relevant documents outside of
materials requested by earlier investigative or other
official committees or commissions, or through the
Freedom of Information Act?

What is the volume of material which you might recommend
be released to the public without concern for further
postponement?

13-00000
:

P.5

The Honorable Robe: M. Cates
Page 2

Would you be opposed to a provision requesting agencies,
whenever possible, to self-certify materials which may
released without agency objection?

What recommendations can you make with regard to the need
for interagency working groups to identify third-agency
records in agency files, to avoid duplication, and to
assist in the efficient disclosure of information to the
public?

What are the logistical, manpower, and resource concerns
that you have with regard to the review and release of
assassination material?

Thank you for your assistance and consideration. I look
forward to seeing you on May 12th. In the event that you have
any questions, please do not hesitate to contact me. Your
staff has already been very helpful to the Committee in its
preparation for the hearing. They may also contact Dr. Leonard
Weiss, Staff Director, or Steven Katz, Counsel, at
202-224-4751.

Geun

Sincerely
John Glenn
Chairman

JHG/sk

13-00000

HEARING
before the
SENATE COMMITTEE ON GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
on
S.J. Res. 282:
THE ASSASSINATION MATERIALS DISCLOSURE ACT OF 1992

Tuesday, May 12, 1992
9:00 a.m.
Room 342 Dirksen Senate Office Building

WITNESS LIST
****

Panel 1:
The Honorable David L. Boren
United States Senator (D-OK)

The Honorable Arlen Specter
United States Senator (R-PA)

The Honorable Louis Stokes
United States Representative (D-OH)
*

RELEASE OF ON INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT

Panel 2:
The Honorable Robert M. Gates
Director
Central Intelligence Agency

The Honorable Williams Sessions
Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation

Panel 3:
*

James Lesar
President
Assassination Archives and Research Center
Washington, D. C.

Professor Ernest May
Kennedy School of Government
Harvard University
Cambridge, Massachusetts

Professor Athan Theoharis
Department of History
Marquette University
Milwaukee, Wisconsin

13-00000
:

HEARING
before the
SENATE COMMITTEE ON GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
on
S.J. Res. 282:
THE ASSASSINATION MATERIALS DISCLOSURE ACT OF 1992

Tuesday, May 12, 1992
9:00 a.m.
Room 342 Dirksen Senate Office Building

WITNESS LIST
****

Panel 1:
The Honorable David L. Boren
United States Senator (D-OK)

The Honorable Arlen Specter
United States Senator (R-PA)

The Honorable Louis Stokes
United States Representative (D-OH)
Co
DECLAS
RELEAS OF GALL INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT

Panel 2:
****

The Honorable Robert M.-Gates...
Director
Central Intelligence Agency

The Honorable Williams Sessions
Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation

Panel 3:
James Lesar
President
Assassination Archives and Research Center
Washington, D. C.

Professor Ernest May
Kennedy School of Government
Harvard University
Cambridge, Massachusetts

Professor Athan Theoharis
Department of History
Marquette University
Milwaukee, Wisconsin
*

13-00000
APR 2
92
20
1.

P.2

CIA SPECIAL COLECTIONS
RELEASE IN FULL
2000

4/22/92
!

OUTLINE OF TESTIMONY ON JFK RESOLUTION

A. Agreement with Principles of Legislation.

B.
:

1. Favor disclosure of as much material on JFK as
is consistent with protection of intelligence
sources and methods.

2. Established own declassification program.
Presumption will be in favor of disclosure.

3. Pledge to cooperate with any reasonable
mechanism to declassify documents.

Describe Nature and Amount of Records.

1. Reasons for having records.

2.
to.
Volume of existing material and who it belongs

3. How we have identified material related to JFK
assassination.

C. How Much Material Can be Released?

1. Give estimate of amount of material to be
released under CIA program or resolution.

2. Describe material that could not be disclosed.

a. Example of Intelligence Sources and
Methods that would require withholding.

b. Example of material the release of which
would invade privacy. :

3. Describe resources--manpower and funds--to
achieve results.

D. Concerns with Resolutions.
i

1. Address only Intelligence Community Concerns.
Will defer to DoJ on Constitutional objections.
:

13-00000
APR 22 '92 08:47

P.3

2. CIA or other agencies that originate documents
should conduct initial review of material to
determine whether it can be released. Material
withheld from public release could then be made
available to Review Board.

3. Agencies that originate information should be
allowed to review it for release even if that
information is contained in a document prepared by
another agency or Congress. Suggest interagency
working group to handle coordination issues likely
to arise with disclosure of third agency
documents.

4. Will cooperate with any request by the Board
for additional material that has a reasonable
relationship to the assassination.

5. Would hope that the Board will consult with
DCI before using subpoena power to compel
production of material that involves sensitive
intelligence sources and methods.

5. Exemptions need to be clarified so as to
ensure that deliberative process information and
identities of covert employees are protected.

E. Conclusion: Pledge to cooperate with whatever
mechanism is established to declassify material. Hope that
this effort will help to dispel myths regarding JFK
assassination.
.

13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

OCA 2034-92
1 May 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: House Government Operations Committee Hearing on
H.J. Res. 454 (JFK Materials Resolution)

1. On 28 April, the undersigned attended a public
hearing on the proposed Assassination Materials Disclosure
Act conducted by the House Government Operations Legislation
and National Security Subcommittee. Majority
Committee/Subcommittee Chairman Conyers and Ranking Minority
Member Horton were present for the entire hearing; majority
Subcommittee members English, Neal, Peterson, and Thornton
and minority members Shays and Schiff and full Committee
member Martinez attended at least part of the hearing. The
Committee's Press release, which criticizes the government
and particularly CIA as releasing JFK-related documents "at
a snail's pace", and witness statements are attached.

2. The hearing was well attended by the public and
attracted much media coverage. Eight witnesses testified in
four groups: Congressmen Louis Stokes (assisted by
Robert Blakey, former counsel to the House Select Committee
on Assassinations) and former HPSCI Chairman Lee Hamilton
testified first. The congressmen were followed by the movie
"JFK"'s director Oliver Stone, who was followed by
Howard Willens, Counsel to the Warren Commission, and
James Johnston, Counsel to the Church Committee. The
session closed with a panel comprised of Ms. Leslie Harris,
Chief Legislative Counsel for the Washington office of the
ACLU; Dr. Herbert Parmet, Professor of History,
Queensborough Community College and Graduate School of the
City University of New York, and Dr. Harold Rellyea,
American National Government Specialist at the Congressional
Research Service.

3. Chairman Conyers advised in his opening remarks
that the Committee wanted to hear from the Executive branch
and thus would hold another hearing session. He noted that
"after much negotiation," the Director of Central
Intelligence would be testifying in mid-May. He further
noted that the Committee also hoped to hear from the
Attorney General, but negotiations with the Justice
Department were still ongoing. Conyers was criticized of
the DoJ at the outset, noting that the Committee had

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

Subject: House Government Operations Committee Hearing on
H.J. Res. 454 (JFK Materials Resolution)

received a long, single-spaced letter from Justice detailing
numerous "legalistic" objections to the resolution, which he
characterized as not reflecting a real willingness to work
together to release the documents to the American people.

4. The general tone of the session was strongly in
favor of the resolution and disclosure of the vast majority
of the material. Most witnesses conceded that there might
be some materials that required postponement of disclosure,
but the bias was clearly toward disclosure. Even
Oliver Stone, in response to a comment from Congressman
Shays that he (Shays) found it hard to imagine what national
security or privacy issues would persist after 30 years,
conceded that there might be some exceptions, but Stone
thought 98 percent of the material could be released.
Several witnesses, including Congressman Stokes and Church
Committee counsel, suggested that most national security
information should be released under the resolution, but
that privacy interests posed greater concerns.
Congressman Hamilton warned that the Congress should be
careful that nondisclosure "loopholes" do not "swallow up
the bill," which is why he said that review by an
independent board was so important.

5. Stone's testimony had quite an impact on the
hearing. Several congressman and witnesses credited his
movie "JFK" as "the reason we are all here today."
Chairman Conyers appeared particularly impressed with Stone,
describing his testimony in exchanges with later witnesses
as "persuasive" and "compelling." A few potentially tough
questions were thrown at Stone--did he not over-lionize
Garrison; how much research did he do for the movie and did
he seek to talk to or obtain information from the government
as part of his research process? However, there was no
aggressive follow-up to Stone's answers. Discerning
observers may have picked up on the fact that Stone's
"research" seemed tailored to and limited by pre-conceived
conspiracy theories. (For example, when asked if he had
talked to President Ford, a member of the Warren Commission
and advocate of disclosure of the JFK documents, Stone
answered no--that it was pretty obvious where Ford stood as
a proponent of the lone gunman theory.)

6. When asked about his personal views, Stone said he
believed that there were two conspiracies. The murder
conspiracy was small and covert--perhaps involving no more
that five to ten people--and was led by the "intelligence
agencies." Stone did not mention CIA by name at this point.

2

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

Subject: House Government Operations Committee Hearing on
H.J. Res. 454 (JFK Materials Resolution)

He mentioned Oswald's alleged ties to naval intelligence,
and also said that a closer look should be taken at an
operation "MONGOOSE" and a Colonel Landsdale. He also
posited a bigger "cover-up" conspiracy after the fact,
spearheaded by President Johnson (who Stone alleged told
Earl Warren he would be responsible for World War III if the
Commission tied the Cubans into a conspiracy). Stone
theorized that a much broader "Establishment", while not
directly involved in the assassination, was not sorry to see
Kennedy go because he was an agent of profound change
embarking upon several courses that disturbed that
"Establishment", including pulling out of Vietnam. In
response to a later question about various theories, Stone
called the Mafia theory a "red-herring." Stone said "as you
know, the CIA has always used the Mafia for plausible
deniability" and that it was important to look behind the
Mafia at "who pulls the strings."

7. Other matters of Agency interest discussed include
that both the Warren Commission attorney and particularly
the Church Committee attorney castigated CIA for "lying" to
the Warren Commission. The particular example offered had
to do with "AMLASH." This individual came up in connection
with traces the Agency apparently conducted for the Warren
Commission. CIA purportedly had a relationship with AMLASH
in connection with a Castro assassination plot, but did not
make this fact known to the Warren Commission. The
witnesses characterized this as pertinent information CIA
consciously withheld from the Warren Commission. Also, when
the final panel engaged in a broader discussion of
government disclosure and FOIA with the subcommittee, the
ACLU held up the CIA Openness Task Force report as an
example of why FOIA was a "dismal failure" as the mechanism
to "vindicate t public's right to know." (On 18 March
Conyers rigorously questioned Gary Foster on the task force
report when his subcommittee held a hearing on "Government
Secrecy After the Cold War.")

8. A major recurring theme was concern that, despite
the need to make the documents publicly available, the
Administration would not support the resolution and it could
be vetoed. Congressman Hamilton stated that, if the
resolution were vetoed, he hoped that at minimum the House
would pass a resolution to release its own records. (Such
an action would be problematic for the Administration,
because much Executive branch information is contained in
House records, and the House also probably considers
documents obtained from Executive agencies as part of its

3

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

Subject: House Government Operations Committee Hearing on
H.J. Res. 454 (JFK Materials Resolution)

records.) Most witnesses thought the Congress should try to
avoid a constitutional confrontation with the
Administration, however, and a few practical suggestions to
help work around problems were made. For example, the ACLU
suggested that the Review Board might be modeled after the
Advisory Committee established in connection with the State
Department's preparation of the Foreign Relations of the
United States (FRUS) series, with which CIA's historical
staff is familiar. This body was established by a provision
included in last year's Foreign Relations Authorization Act.

9. In conclusion, the hearing did not get into much
detail on provisions of the resolution. Much time was spent
on general propositions like the fact that the documents
ought to be released and why, and matters tangential to core
issues raised by H.R. 454.

Victoria L. Pepper
Assistant General Counsel
Office of Congressional Affairs

4

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

13-00000

OCA 2050-92
6 May 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR: We Director of Central Intelligence
FROM: Stanley M. Moskowitz
Director of Congressional Affairs
SUBJECT: JFK Testimony

1. Attached is a copy of your opening statement for
the 12 May hearing before Senate Governmental Affairs
Committee on the JFK Joint Resolution. Because we are
commenting on legislation, Executive Branch guidelines
require us to submit the testimony in advance to OMB for
Administration clearance. We also intend to provide your
opening statement in advance to the DoJ and FBI. As you
know, Director Sessions will be joining you for a panel
presentation before the Committee.

2. Please let me know whether you have any objections
to release of your statement to OMB, DoJ, and the FBI. The
Committee has requested that an advance copy of your
statement be provided to them by 8 May.

Attachment:
as stated
Stanley M. Moskowitz

13-00000

Draft 5/6/92

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS
RELEASE IN FULL
2000

STATEMENT OF ROBERT M. GATES
DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

BEFORE THE

COMMITTEE ON GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
:

UNITED STATES SENATE

12 MAY 1992

13-00000

Mr. Chairman, I am here today at your request to provide
my views on Senate Joint Resolution 282, "The Assassination
Materials Disclosure Act of 1992," and to describe the nature of
documents held by the CIA that relate to the assassination of John
F. Kennedy. I very much appreciate the opportunity to speak on
this important matter.

Let me begin by stating that I am in complete agreement
with the purpose underlying the joint resolution--that efforts
should be made to declassify and make available to the public as
quickly as possible government documents relating to the
assassination of John F. Kennedy. We hope that opening up and
giving journalists, historians and, most importantly, the public
access to governmental files will help to resolve questions that
still linger even 28 years after the assassination. Further, I believe
over
that maximum disclosure will discredit the theory that the CIA had anyther
participated in the murder of John F. Kennedy.
ת

Even before introduction of this joint resolution, I
recognized the need for greater public access to CIA documents
of historical importance. Two months ago, I announced the
establishment of a new unit within CIA that will be responsible
for declassifying as many historical documents as possible
consistent with the protection of intelligence sources and
to do with

13-00000

methods. This new unit, the Historical Review Group, in the
Agency's Center for the Study of Intelligence, will review for
declassification documents 30 years old or older, and national
intelligence estimates on the former Soviet Union that are
10 years old or older. In addition to the systematic review of 30-
year- old documents, I have directed the History Staff in the
Center for the Study of Intelligence to assemble CIA records
focusing on particular events of historical importance, including
Весиии of
high intessent
in the JPK
not waiting for
the assassination of President Kennedy. The Historical Review apers, I am
Group will then examine the documents for the purpose of
declassifying the records. As we speak this Group has already
legislation or
other agencies
to start
begun its review of the documents related to the assassination of Legislation or
President Kennedy, and I am glad to report that the first group of
Sine Som these records, which includes all CIA documents on Lee Harvey
Can me
Idea of
#?
Is it
declassifying
documents wassination documents, we will use a presumption in favor of
Limited
only to the 37
which CHA
has
Legislation or
includin
Oswald prior to the assassination, has been declassified and
transferred to the National Archives for release to the public.

As we carry out our program to declassify Kennedy
releasing as many documents as possible. In fact, I recently
approved new CIA declassification guidelines for our Historical
on the
next page.
good
Ken said
there wou
be
(specifically direct)
enou