14-00000
SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM
UNCLASSIFIED
☐ CONFIDENTIAL
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP
SECRET
TO
NAME AND ADDRESS
1
DATE
INITIALS

3

4

5
Comments. When de sils for
alate for at
• you for this art sd. S.
ACTION
APPROVAL
COMMENT
CONCURRENCE
DIRECT REPLY
DISPATCH
FILE
INFORMATION
PREPARE REPLY
RECOMMENDATION
RETURN
SIGNATURE
Remarks:
Paul Bul to
8. & P. P. 1st me
Notify Starlin
POLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER
FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.
DATS
UNCLASSIFIED
CONFIDENCΙΑΙ,
ANERET
237
Use previous editions
14-00000
L
Tom:
23 recenber 1966
I'm not overly enthusiastic about
the possibilities of getting much from
SKEMEF-1; however, I would like to meet
him and chat about his friends and business
associates in the W/L'Islands. He possibly
might be used as an entree to reporting
or support assets.
:
It would be my opanion that we would
not have to bring his clearance up to date
!
to chat with him.
I've not made
Paul
any notes from
the files; therefore, if Ed agrees to
helping us, details should be
I to me
prion to
tomy
forwarded
departure for dan fuam.
14-00000
L
S-E-C-P-E-T
(When Filled In)
201
SKEWER I
on
Recend
SA cards
MEMORANDUM FOR: DOCO/SA
ATTENTION : Gale W. Allen
SUBJECT
: VERRE, Luis Albert
$215 627
1. Reference is made to your memorandum dated 5 January 1965
which requested a Covert Security Approval be granted Subject for
briefing on KUBARK objectives in WUBRIDNY D and propose long term
ecomercial collaboration of mutual advantage, Project WUBRIWY.
2. In accordance with the provisions set forth in Clandestine
Services Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction -
Field No. 10-5, a Covert Security Approval is granted for the use of
the Subject as described in your request as set forth in paragraph 1,
above.
3. Subjects of Covert Security Approvals are not to represent
themselves as, nor are they to be represented as, employees of CIA.
4. Your attention is called to the fact that a Covert Security
Approval does not constitute complete compliance with the provisions
of CIA Regulation 10-3. Therefore, if you should desire at a later
date to change the status or use of this individual, a request for
approval to cover any proposed change should be submitted to this
office.
5. This approval becomes invalid in the event the Subject's
services are not utilized within six months of the date of this
memorandum.
R.A. Aparkin
för
Victor R. White
Deputy Director of Security (IOS)
8-E-C-R-F-T
(When Filled In)
Estated treo testi
foongysting and
:
14-00000
L
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
When Filled In
30 Dec 1974
(date)
Review of 201 File on U.S. Citizen
In accordance with the DDO's
notice of 9 December 1974,
F
(surname)
have determined that it can
I have reviewed the 201 file on
(201 number indicated below), and
most accurately be categorized as indicated belowi
should be closed.
witting collaborator. OI Code Al.
potential witting collaborator; date opened
OI Code A2...
former witting collaborator (relationship terminated).
OI Code A3. - Perhaps still some
not clear.
DCD interest file
ΟΙ Code Λ4.
potential witting collaborator never contacted (security
reasons, derogatory information).
counterintelligence case (i.e., involving a foreign
intelligence or security service).
all others. OI Code A6.
:
OI Code AJ.
Signed
(name)
Desk D
(title)
Off
DRH
(component)
This assignment of category has been entered into STAR.
Signed
KAM
(initials)
6 JAN
(date)
1975
This document is a permanent part of this file.
SEGRE
When Filled In
0-0-N-P-1-D-E-N-T-1-A-L
101-205712
22 IMPDET
CL BY 054979
CERTA
14-00000
L
S-E-C-P-E-T
(When Filled In)
201
SKEWER I
on
Recerd
SA cards
MEMORANDUM FOR: DOCO/SA
ATTENTION
SUBJECT
: Gale W. Allen
:
FERRE, Luis Albert
$215 627
11. Reference is made to your memorandum dated 5 January 1965
which requested & Covert Security Approval be granted Subject for
briefing on KUBARK objectives in WUBRINY D and propose long term
commercial collaboration of mutual advantage, Project WUBRDNY.
2. In accordance with the provisions set forth in Clandestine
Services Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction -
Field No. 10-5, a Covert Security Approval is granted for the use of
the Subject as described in your request as set forth in paragraph 1,
above.
:.
3. Subjects of Covert Security Approvals are not to represent
themselves as, nor are they to be represented as, employees of CIA.
4. Your attention is called to the fact that a Covert Security
Approval does not constitute complete compliance with the provisions
of CIA Regulation 10-3. Therefore, if you should desire at a later
date to change the status or use of this individual, a request for
approval to cover any proposed change should be submitted to this
office.
. This approval becomes invalid in the event the Subject's
services are not utilized within six months of the date of this
memorandum.
for Pers. Aparkin
Victor R. White
Deputy Director of Security (IOS)
S-E-C-R-F-T
(When Filled In
14-00000
Skewer/1201
26 January 1965
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Antilles Material Company Limited (AMCO) -
Meeting with SKEWER/1 on the Relationship
of the Puerto Rican Cement Company to AMCO
2, λε agreed in his il January 1965 meeting with
SKEWER/1, Hr. Edward Stanulis telephoned SKEWER/1 on the
morning of 18 January to arrange a meeting with SKEWER/1
at his convenience later in the day. SKEWER/1 suggested
a meeting at 1500 hours that afternoon in his office at
the Puerto Rican Iron Works in Fonce. He indicated to
Mr. Stanulis that the Puerto Rican Cement Company looks
with favor on AMCO and is doing business with it through
its Manager, Mr. Alvin T. Philpotts, Jr.
2. Prior to the meeting, Messrs. Allen, Carter, and
Stanulis reviewed the approach to be made to SKEWER/1 in
the light of his favorable view of AMCO. It was agreed
that no mention would be made of the fact that AMCO is in
poor financial condition or that Mr. Philpotte is inade-
quate as a manager. Stress would be laid upon assessment
of the long-term commercial viability of AMCO because
KUBARK is ostensibly interested in placing an officer in
a managerial position in AMCO, or some other similar firm,
in order to monitor Castro's activities in the Caribbean
area.
3. Messrs. Allen, Carter, and Stanults arrived pre-
cisely at 1500 hours at SKEWER's office on the second floor
of the Puerto Rican Iron Works. His male secretary asked
us to take seats in the corridor outside his office.
Within a few minutes his "sacretary reappeared and asked us
to wait in the Conference Room. Some ten minutes later
SKEWER/1 appeared and invited us into his private office.
He war extremely cordial and gracious. Mr. Stanulis intro-
duced Mr. Allen as a colleague who is assessing AMCO's com-
mercial viability. He introduced Mr. Carter as a lawyer
consultant who is obtaining background information in the
event KUBARK should decide to proceed with placement of an
officer in AMCO.
:
SECRET
14-00000
-2-
4. Mr. Allen informed SKEWER/1 that SUBARK is assessing
the factors bearing on the long-term commercial viability
of AMCO. Se explained that K:MARK does not want to place an officer in a
company which is not commercially viable for the long
term. One of the factors bearing on the commercial via-
bility of AMCO is the relationship of the Puerto Rican
Cement Company with AMCO and the terms of any agreements.
We would also like his views on commodities other than
cement wirici can be siιμρού τα uesto co to the outer
islands and what commodities can be shipped on return
voyages. Another factor of interest is competition in the
shipping field.
5. SKEVER/1 indicated that he needed some clarifi-
cation of KUBARK objectives. Mr. Stanulis reviewed KUBARK
ostensible interest in having an experienced commercial man
in a commercially viable shipping company for the purpose.
✓of checking on Castro activities in the Caribbean area.
SKEWER/1 assumed that Mr. Fhilpotts was the man in whom
we are interested. Mr. Allen dispelled this assumption.
explaining that KUBARK has a candidate whom we would like
to place in a managerial position in A100 if it is ceter-
mined that NMCO is commercially viablo. KUBARK would seek
to effect this placement through a friend on the Board who,
like SKEWER/1, has helped KUBANK in the past and would
undoubtedly help again. SKEWER/1 said, "Oh, yes, through
the top man in the company." He then asked if Mr. Thilpotts
would know of KUBARK interest. Mr. Allen replied no,
emphasizing that our interest should be closely held.
:
6. SKEWER/1 said that he had not realized that we
wanted so much detail and asked if we desired to talk with
the man in his company most familiar with ANCO. Mr. Stanulis
declined, emphasizing that we wanted to keep our interest
in this matter confined solely to SKEWER/1. SKEWER/1 1m-
mediately agreed to make the necessary telephone calls to
obtain answers to our questions. As the basis for his
Inquiry, he would ask about the amount of credit extenced
by the Puerto Rican Cement Company to AMCO. SKEWER/L then
made a series of telephone calls to one of his subordinates
named Touns and also made one call to his son.
Information was obtained in the above telephone calls:
The following
a. AMCO has 2 or 3 ships under charter and ships
primarily coment to Martinque, Guadaloupe, Barbados,
and Antigue,
SECRET
14-00000
i
-3-
b. The uerto Rican Cement Company has a
verbal agreement with r. Thilpotts granting him
exclusive distribution of cement in Guadaloupe,
Barbados, and Antigua,
c. AMCO currently owes the Nuerto Rican
Cement Company $40,000 and is slow in payment.
d. The normal procedure for payment is for
the consignee to pay Mr. Philpotts by & note which
the Puerto Rican Cement Company discounts.
e. The Puerto Rican Cement Company is currently
examining how much credit it can extend to ANCO.
In this connection the company is examining whether
credit extended to AMCO can be insured under the
Foreign Credit Insurance Association. (FCIA insures
80% of export credit.) If so, the risk to the
Puerto Rican Cement Company would be reduced and
further credit could be extended.
f. The Puerto Rican Cement Company has sold
133,000 bags of cement to AMCO.
:
7. SKEWER/1 said that Mr. Philpotts is aggressive
and that he is pushing Fuerto Rican cement. Mr. Carter
csked SKEWER/1 if his firm were worried about the amount
of credit extended to AMCO. SKEWER/1 replied that AMCO
is trying to help the Puerto Rican Cement Company and
Puerto Rican Cement is in turn trying to help ANCO.
SKEWER/1 imparted the impression that he has absolute
confidence in his subordinates. In calling Tomas, SKEWER/1
said to us that he had gone over the head of his son.
SKEWER/1 was not aware that ANCO Puerto Rico is a subsidiary
of AMCO Panama. en apprised of this fact, he said that
this arrangement is probably for tax purposes. SKEWER/1
left the impression that he considers MMCO as a Puerto Rican
company and one worthy of support. He recalled that he had
previously given a job to a Trujillo opponent, Fred Imbert,
whom no one else would hire, Mr, Imbert now has his om
shipping company and SKEWER/1 suggested that we assess his
operation. He recalled that Mr. Trujillo had telephoned him
about harboring a criminal. SKEWER/I told Trujillo to mind
his own business as would SKEWER/L. Mr. Stanulis indicated
that KURARK would not want to consider Fred Imbert's opera-
tion, given his family's involvement in the Dominican
Republic. Throughout the conversation, the picture emerged
of a man who trusts his subordinates and who would help an
individual or fim, particularly fuerto Rican, which is also
trying to help his firm.
SECRET
14-00000

SLCT
-4-
:
i
8. Mr. Allen said that we would assess the
situation carefully, and in the event it should be
determined to proceed, we would advise him. dr. Allen
informed him that two New York firms have invested
In ANCO, namely, W. S. Kies and Company, and Train,
Cabot and Associates. Our friend is er. Train, who,
as he surmised, is the top man in his firm. Mr. Allen
revealed this information to SKEWER/1 in the event
that it should be deemed desirable for Mr. Train to
negotiate with the Puerto Rican Cement Company. Con-
versely, in the event of ACO's failure, it was felt
that SREWER/1 should know that and is it Gamected
with any other participants. SKEWER/1 offered full
cooperation. ile had arranged his schedule to give us
as much time as necessary. In our presence he received
a telephone call in which he apologized for cancelling
an appointment in order to accommodate us. It is
considered that, as in his past relations with KUBARK,
SKEWER/1 can be trusted and will help KUBARK in any way
he can.
Distribution:
Orig. Ops file
1
WUBRINY D file
2- SKEWER/1 201
1 chrono
SECRET
GALE W. ALLEN
DOCO/SA
14-00000
SECRET
13 January 1965
MEMORANDUM FOR: The Record
i
SUBJECT:
Project WUBRINY--Antilles Materials Company, Ltd.,
Discussion by Mr. Edward Stanulis with SKEWER/1.
1. I made initial telephonic contact with SKEWER/1 at approximately
1100 hours on 10 January 1965 and made arrangements for a meeting in my
hotel room for the following day between the hours of 1600 and 1700 to be
followed by another on Tuesday at a time and place that would be convenient
for SKEWER/1. Later in the day SKEWER/1 informed me that he would be
mmable to meet with us on Tuesday as he was leaving by air on the evening
of 11 January for a series of appointments in the States.
2. The meeting with SKEWER/1 was held in my hotel room at 1645
hours on 11 January. I told SKEWER/1 that as he knew, one of KUBARK'S
prime information targets in Latin America concerned the activities of
Castro's Cuba and that in this connection some of our people had been
thinking for some time that it would be most useful in pursuing this require-
ment to have entree into shipping interests that were active in Caribbean
waters, SKEWER/I said he thought this idea excellent. i further stated
that those people had heard that SKEWER/l's firm was discussing the possi-
bility of entering into an exclusive Caribbean distributorship contract with
Alvin T. Philpotts, Jr., who is associated with the Antilles Materials
Company, Ltd. S. A. of Panama and Puerto Rico, and asked him if he had
any knowledge of the individual or the negotiations. SKEWER/I replied
that he did not know of either, but that his son would be familiar with both.
3. I asked SKEWER/1 if he would be willing to investigate the situ-
ation discreetly without mentioning any interest on KUBARK's part and a
the same time consider the commercial feasibility of the venture for AMCO.
He agreed..
4. In elaborating on the basic concept, I told SKEWER/1 that if the
proper maritime firm were located (that is, one that may be floundering
now but has commercial viability potential), we would be interested in
placing with the company an individual who possesses the necessary com-
mercial background qualifications and also has the capability of accompli-
shing certain KUBARK requirements, SKEWER/1 reiterated his conviction
that the concept is an excellent one and said he would do all in his power to
SECRET
14-00000

SECRET
help KUBARK achieve this objective.
5. I told him that I would appreciate his cooperation in meeting
with two of my friends who are more fully versed in these matters.
He agreed and set the meeting for Monday, 19 January 1965. SKEWER/1
gave me his unlisted private telephone numier and suggested that I con-
tact him Monday morning, 19 January 1965, to set time and place for
the meeting. The number is 842-2120.
Distribution:
Orig.--C/DO/SA
ADCDO/CO
Gale W. Allen
1--WUBRINY/OPS
WUBRINY/D
--SKEWER/1.201 file
1--BA Chrczo
SECRET
I. A. STANULIS
14-00000
Siseve: 201
1 February 1965
Case Officer Comment:
The meeting wit.: SKEWER/1 confirmed Mr. Philpotts'
report that his relations with the Puerto Rican Cement
Company are good. It also revealed the terms of the
relationship between the Fuerto Rican Cement Company
and AMCO which Mr. Philpotte had not reported in detail
to WUBRINY/2. It is obvious that Mr. Philpotts has
sold himself to certain officials in the Puerto Rican
Cement Company who have the confidence of the Company's
top management. The extent to which Mr. Philpotts may
have conned other businessmen into extending credit
and the amount of such credit is a key factor for in-
vestigation by WUBRINY/1 and 12, and Mr. Malia on their
forthcoming trip. It is feared that Mr. Philpotts has
Incurred so many debts that the firing of Mr. Philpotts
and reorganization of AMCO would be prohibitively
expensive.
SECRET
GALE W. ALLEN
DOCO/SA
14-00000
L
SECRET
1 February 1965
Case Officer Comment:
The meeting with SKEWER/1 confirmed Mr. Philpotts'
report that his relations with the Puerto Rican Cement
Company are good. It also revealed the terms of the
relationship between the Puerto Rican Cement Company
and AMCO which Mr. Philpotts had not reported in detail
to HUBRINY/2. It is obvious that Mr. Philpotts has
sold himself to certain officials in the Puerto Rican
Cement Company who have the confidence of the Company's
top management. The extent to which Mr. Philpotts may
have conned other businessmen into extending credit
and the amount of such credit is a key factor for in-
vestigation by WUBRINY/1 and 12, and Mr. Malia on their
forthcoming trip. It is feared that Mr. Philpotts has
incurred so many debts that the firing of Mr. Philpotts
and reorganization of AMCO would be prohibitively
expensive.
Hale W. Allen
GALE W. ALLEN
DOCO/SA
SECRET
14-00000
14 January 1965
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:
SUBJECT: Antilles Materials Company, Ltd.
1. Mr. Ed Stanulis telephoned Mr. Allen at
home from San Juan, Puerto Rico, on 11 January 1965.
He met with SKEWER/1 as scheduled at 3 P.M. SKEWER/1
was not familiar with any negotiations between the
Puerto Rican Cement Company and ANCO but agreed to
look quietly into the matter.
call to PR Cement's Sales Manager before he left
He made a telephone.
for New York. SKEWER/1 said that he had such a heavy
schedule on this trip, requiring his presence in
New York, Chicago, and Connecticut, that he could not
squeeze in a meeting with KUBARK representatives. He
would, however, be glad to meet with KUBARK represent-
atives in Puerto Rico on 18 January 1965. This delay
would also enable him to investigate thoroughly the
status of negotiations with AMCO.
2. Mr. Stanulis said that he had followed the
previously agreed approach to SKEWER/1. He emphasized
that KUBARK is interested in AMCO only to the extent
that a feasible commercial arrangement can be worked
out, so that placement of an officer in AMCO to work
against Cuba would make sense.
is not doing too well financially and that the question
He indicated that AMCO
is whether it can be resurrected on a sound commercial
basis. Mr. Stanulis informed SKEWER/1 that KUBARK is
not interested in taking an equity position in AMCO.
3. Mr. Stanulis affirmed unequivocally to Mr.
Allen his previous assessment of SKEWER/1, namely that
SKEWER/1 will do anything to help KUBARK, particularly
against Cuba, Mr. Stanulis will write a report upon
arrival in Washington on or about 13 January 1965.
:
Distribution
Orig. Ops file
1- Subj. file
1 - SKEWER/1 201
1- chrono
GALE W. ALLEN
SECRET
-1
14-00000
MEMORANDUM FOR: DOCO/SA
ATTENTION
FROM
SUBJECT
: Gale W. Allen
: Deputy Director of Security (Investi-
gations and Operational Support)
: FERRE, Antonio Luis
450 945:
S-E-C-R-E-T
(When Filled In)
14 M
1. Reference is made to your memorandum dated 7 January 1964
which requested a Provisional Covert Security Approval to permit Subject,
President, Puerto Rican Cement Company, to be made witting of Agency interest
in WUBRINY/D in the event his father, a cleared Agency contact, desires to
discuss with Subject this interest.
2. In accordance with the provisions set forth in Clandestine
Services Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction -
Field No. 10-5, a Provisional Covert Security Approval is granted for
the use of the Subject as described in your request as set forth in
paragraph 1, above. This confirms a verbal PCSA granted 5 January 1965.
3. Bubjects of Provisional Covert Security Approvals are not to
represent themselves as, nor are they to be represented as, employees
of CIA.
4. Your attention is called to the fact that a Provisional Covert
Security Approval does not constitute complete compliance with the
provisions of CIA Regulation 10-3. Therefore, if you should desire at
a later date to change the status or use of this individual, a request.:
for approval to cover any proposed change should be sumbitted to this
office.
5. This approval becomes invalid in the event action is not taken
within 90 days of the date of this memorandum.
FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:
ber
R.. Sparlia
Victor R. White
8-X-C-R-N-T
(When Filled In)
GROUP 1
Rxoluded from Auto-
matic downgrading and
deglassification
14-00000
SECRET
TO:
REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION
(Always handcarry I copy of the form)
PLEASE COMPLETE EACH SECTION AND APFZOPRIATE BLANE
CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION
☑ CHIEF, INVESTIGATION AND SUPPORT DIVISION, OFFICE OF SECURITY
CHIEF PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION, OFFICE OF SECURITY
SUBJECT:
(True nam.)
Antonio Luis Ferre
CRYPTONTH, PSEUDONYM, ARA OF ALIASES
i
Subject
CATE
7 January 1964
FROM:
PROJECT
DOCO/SA
LUBRINY
CI/GA FILE NO.
B1 201 FILE NO.
SO FILE NO.
450945
1. TYPE ACTION REQUESTED
PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
☑ PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL
CONTRACY TYPE A
COVERT BELUNITY APPROVAL
3. SPECIFIC AREA OF USE
3. FULL OCTAILS OF USE
PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
COVERT NAME CHECK
SPECIAL INQUIRY (SO field investigation)
CONTRACT TYPE B
United States-Puerto Rico
Desire PCSA in the event his father, a cleared KUBARK contact, 201-205712
SO file number 215627, desires to discuss with him XWBARK interest in
WUBRINY/D. Subject is President, Puerto Rican Cement Company, born 1934,
Ponce, Puerto Rico, U.S. citizen. Will seek additional biographic
information.
4. INVESTIGATION AND COVER
A. U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?
8. CIA INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?
C. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM?
D. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HIM?
8. INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE IN THE INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.
F. SUGGEST "COVER PRETEXT" TO BE USED IN CONDUCTING PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF ST.
6. DO YOU PLAN TO MAKE SUBJECT WITTING OF AGENCY OR GOVERNMENT INTERESTS
IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA, EXPLAIN FULLY
VES
NO
X
X
X
X
YES
NO
PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS
PRO 1, ON EQUIVALENT.
:
PRO 11. OR EQUIVALENT
NO RECORD
NO RECORD
NO RECOND
NO DENOGATORY INFO.
LIST 06
SED CHECKED
NOT INITIATED (Suplanation)
SIGNATURE UP CASK OFFICER
Gale W. Allan, DOCO/SA
FORM 772
IN (2) COPIES ATTACHED
IN (1) COPY ATTACHED
PRO II WILL BE FOR VARDED
GREEN LIST ATTACHE、NOI
..
RI THACES
X WILL FORWARD
NON-DEROGATORY
7. DIVISION TRACES
WILL FORWARD
NON-DEMOGATORY
DEROGATGAY ATTACHLO
DEROGATONY ATTACHED
8. FIELD TRACES
WILL FORWARD
DEHOGATORY ATTACHED
SIGNIFICANT IMFONIO ATTACHE
EKTENGION
SIGNATURE OF BRANCH CHITF
11-61961
Norman G. Swift, C/0030/SA
SECRET
14-00000
L
Ssewer
13 January 1965
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Antilles Materials Company, Ltd.
1. Messrs. Allen and Carter met on 8 January 1965 with Mr.
Edward Stanulis, former COS San Juan, to discuss an approcch
to SKEWER/1 for information on subject company. It was agreed
that Mr. Stanulis would go to Puerto Rico on 9 January and
contact SKEWER/1 on the 10th. Hopefully SKEWER/1 could obtcin
information on negotiations between Puerto Rican Coment Com-
pany and AMCO in time for a meeting with Messrs Stanulis, Allen,
and Carter on 12 January. Messrs. Allen and Carter would plan
to arrive in San Juan at 10:50 P.M. on 11 January.
2. Mr. Stanulis would apprise SKEWER/1 of KUBARK's inter-
est in placing a KUBARK officer in a small shipping and trad-
ing company operating in the Caribbean area in order to monitor
Cuban activities. SKEWER/1 would be cautioned to keep this
knowledge confidential. In this connection, Mr. Stanulis said
that SKEWER/1 had proved to be absolutely reliable from the
security point of view. Mr. Stanulis would advise SKEWER/1
that KUBARK is looking at AMCO which is negotiating with the
Puerto Rican Cement Company to be its cement distributor in
the Caribbean area. SKEWER/I would be asked to confirm any
negotiations and the terms involved. His enswers would be
given in the cubsequent meeting with Mescrs. Stanulis, Allen,
and Carter. Further discussion with SKEWER/1 would be condi-
tioned on hic answers. In any case KUBARK representatives
would ascertain his views on the validity of AMCOs commercial
concept and on any possibility for comercial collaboration
betweon PR Cement and AMCO.
3. Mr. Scanulis ca 10 January 1965 tclophos Mr. Allon
at home to repost that he has a moeting scheduled with SKEWER/1
at 3 P.M. on 11 January. SKEWER/1 is leaving the night of
11 January for New York where he will remain through part of
15 January. Mr. Stanulis will try to get a flight ces of
Puerto Rico for New York, so that a meeting may be arrang:
for Mooors. Soulis, Allen, and Carter with SKEWER/1 in.
York. Mr. Staalis All call Mr. Allen after his mooting with
SKEWER/1. Mr. Stanulis is staying at the Hotel Da Vinci, Room 81.
:
SIGLET
14-00000

SKEWER/1 will be staying in New York at the Hotel Savoy Plaza.
Mr. Allen immediately telephoned Mr. Carter, 941-2802, and
advised him of the change in plans.
Gale W. Allen
DOCO/SA
DOCO/SA:GWA:jev (13 Jan. 1965)
Distribution:
0 - Subject
1
WUBRINY Ops
SA Chrono
X- SKEWER/1
14-00000
L
SECRET
REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTIOR
PATC
Subjest
Always handcarry 1 copy of this form)
PLEASE COMPLETE EACH SECTION AND APPROPRIATE CLANE
5 January 1535
TO:
COOPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION
FROM:
DOCO/SA
CHIEF, INVESTIGATION AND SUPPORT DIVISION, OFFICE OF SECURITY
CHIEF, PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION. OFFICE OF SECURITY
SUBJECT:
(True name) Luis Albert Ferre
CRYPTONYM, PSEUDONYM, AKA OR ALIASES
:
PROJECT
FL32943
81 201 FILE 10.
SO FILE
201-2057-2
2.50
1. TYPE ACTION REQUESTED
PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
X PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL 8 Dec. 195
X COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL
CONTRACT TYPE A
2. SPECIFIC AREA OF USE
3. FULL DETAILS OF USE
PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
COVERT NAME CHECK
SPECIAL INDLY (30 field investigation)
CONTRACT TYPE B
United States - Puerto Rico
The Puerto Rican Cement Company is interested in having WUBRINY Das
its overt distributor in the Caribbean area. Desire to brief Subject
on KUBARK objectives in WUBRINY Dand propose long term commercial.
collaboration of mutual advantage. One of the KUBARK officers doing
the briefing will be the new manager of WUBRINY D and continuing contact
with Subject. Previously investigated
4. INVESTIGATION AND COVER
A. U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?
8. CIA INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?
C. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM?
D. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HIM?
E. INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE. IN THE INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.
F. SUGGEST "COVER PRETEXT" TO BE USED IN CONDUCTING PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.
9. DO YOU PLAN TO MAKE SUOJECT WITTING OF AGENCY OR GOVERNMENT INTEREST?
IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA, EXPLAIN FULLY
5. PRQ AND GREEN LIST STATUS
YES
NO
YES
NO
PRO. 1.'OR EQUIVALENT, IN (2) COPIES ATTACHED
PRO 11. OR EQUIVALENT IN (1) COPY ATTACHED
PHO II WILL BE FORWARDED
GREEN LIST ATTACHED, NO
.. RI TRACES
NO RECORD
WILL FORWARD
NON-DEAC STORY
CEROGATORY ATTACHED
7. DIVISION TRACES
NO RECORD
WILL PORWARD
NON DEROGATORY
DEROGATOSY ATTACHED
8. FIELD TRACES
NO RECOND
NO DENOGATORY INFO.
LIST SOURCES CHECKED
NOT INITIATED (Kuplanation)
WILL FORWARD
DEROGATORY ATTACHED.
SIGNATURE OF CASE OFFICER
Gala W. Allen, DOCO/SA
FORM
...772.***
IGNIFICANT INFORMATION ATTACHED
EXTENSION SIGNATURE OF BRANCH CHIKY
11-61951 Norman G. Swift, C/DOCO/SA
SECRET
14-00000

SECRET
5 January 1965
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Luis Albert Ferra (201-205712)
1. WH/2/Dominican Republic holds Subject's file
which has been loaned to DO/SA. Mr. Allen on 5 January
1965 telephoned the DR Desk Officer, Mr. David McGrath,
and explained that DO/SA would like to make Subject wit-
ting of KUBARK interest in UBRINY D. Mr. McGrath said
that the Desk is not