104-10322-10056 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

24 OCT 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

SUBJECT: Supplementary Information on James Earl Ray

REFERENCE: DDO Memorandum for DCI dated 23 October 1975
Subject: Background for Rather Interview
James Earl Ray

Dick Ober (then in CI) who wrote all the early Ray cables,
recalls that he had numerous discussions with the FBI on the
matter, and is certain that whatever we did was undertaken at
the request of the FBI. Because of the fast moving situation,
most of his discussions with the FBI were on the phone, and
not the subject of written memoranda. The paper clipped
outgoing cable in referring to Eric Galt (the man initially
identified by the FBI as the assassin of Dr. King) requests
"addressees make every effort determine if Galt is or has
been in your area. Information para one should be passed
to liaison and any other likely sources. FBI requests that
any information reported be evaluated as to reliability and
that as much detail as possible be provided. Cable any
positive reply priority to HQS. and pass to legal attache
if any in your country." There is a scribbled note in the
file, presumably in Ober's hand, which reads: "4. Ray
fingerprints: FBI agreed to my proposal we send to field
for liaison." Ober, also logically points out that the FBI
would not have provided us later with a fingerprint formula
(see attached cable), a detailed physical description and
photos unless they wanted this passed on to overseas liaison
services. (Note that our cables did not go, for example, to
Ottawa or Mexico City?)

David H. Blee
Associate Deputy Director
for Operations

Attachments

E2 IMPDET
CL-BY-035768

13-00000

ORIG: Richard Ober
UNIT: CIOP/DO
EXT: 6537
DATE: 18 Apr 68
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:
SECRET

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY
1 6
2 7
3 8
4 9
5 10

INDEX DESTROY RETURN TO BRANCH FILE RIC

PER ORIGINATOR NO INDEX FILE IN CS FILE NO.

CONFI INFO RID COPY FILE VR CS/RF DCI D/DCI DDP

C/EUR C/NH C/NE 19 0132 Z 92664

TO PRIORITY NO NIGHT ACTION
ASUNCION, BANGKOK, BARCELONA, BEIRUT, BERLIN, BERN, BOGOTA,
CARACAS
BRASILIA BRUSSELS, BUENOS AIRES, COPENHAGEN,
FRANKFURT, GENEVA, GEORGETOWN, GUATEMALA CITY,

GUAYAQUIL, THE HAGUE, HAMBURG, HELSINKI, HONG KONG,

KINGSTON, LA PAZ, LIMA, LONDON, MADRID, MANAGUA, MONTEVIDEO,

NEW DELHI, LISBON, MANILA, MUNICH, OSLO, PANAMA CITY, PARIS,

PORT AU PRINCE, PORT OF SPAIN, PORTO ALEGRE, QUITO, RECIFE,
RAWALPINDI, RIO DE JANERIO, ROME, SAN JOSE, SANTO DOMINGO,

SAN SALVADOR, SANTIAGO, SANTIAGO DE LOS CABALLEROS, SAO PAULO,

STOCKHOLM, TEGUCIGALPA, TOKYO, VIENNA, ZURICH
RYBAT WOMUSE

1. FOLLOWING INFORMATION FURNISHED BY LNERGO

CONCERNING SUSPECTED ASSASSIN OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

NAME ERIC STARVO GALT, ALIAS HARVEY LOWMYER, ALIAS JOHN
WILLARD, BORN 20 JULY 1931, HEIGHT FIVE FEET EIGHT INCHES TO

SECRET

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

COPY NO.

13-00000

C
MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:
SECRET

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY
1 6
2 7
3 8
4 9
5 10

INDEX DESTROY RETURN TO. BRANCH FILE RIL

NO INDEX FILE IN CS FILE NO.
CONFI INFO: RID COPY FILE VR

CITE DIRECTOR 92664

FIVE FEET ELEVEN INCHES, WEIGHT 160-175 POUNDS, MEDIUM
BUILD, BROWN HAIR, PROBABLY CUT SHORT, BLUE OR HAZEL EYES,

MEDIUM COMPLEXION, RACE WHITE. OCCUPATION: HAS CLAIMED
EMPLOYMENT AS SEAMAN. REMARKS: NOTICEABLY PROTRUDING
LEFT EAR; REPORTEDLY IS A LONE WOLF; ALLEGEDLY ATTENDED
DANCE INSTRUCTION SCHOOL; HAS REPORTEDLY COMPLETED XXX
COURSE IN BARTENDING; CONSIDERED ARMED AND EXTREMELY

DANGEROUS.

2. WILL POUCH PHOTO OF GALT TO ANY ADDRESSEE
DESIRING IT. ADVISE.

3. GALTS CURRENT WHEREABOUTS UNKNOWN. WHILE HAVE
NO REASON BELIEVE GALT HEADED FOR YOUR AREA, DESIRE
COVER ALL POSSIBILITIES.

4. REQUEST ADDRESSEES MAKE EVERY EFFORT DETERMINE
IF GALT IS OR HAS BEEN IN YOUR AREA. MEXICX INFORMATION PARA ONE
SHOULD BE PASSED TO LIAISON AND ANY OTHER LIKELY SOURCES.

SECRET

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification
REPRODUCTION DY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFF IS PROHIBITED.
COPY NO.

13-00000

UNIT:
EXT:
DATE:

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:
SECRET

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY
1 6
2 7
3 8
4 9
5 10
INDEX DESTROY RETURN TO. BRANCH FILE R

CITE DIRECTOR 92664

LNERGO REQUESTS THAT ANY INFORMATION REPORTED BE EVALUATED
AS TO RELIABILITY AND THAT AS MO MUCH DETAIL AS POSSIBLE
BE PROVIDED, CABLE ANY POSITIVE REPLY PRIORITY TO HQS AND
IN
PASS TO LEGAL ATTACHE IF ANY AT YOUR COUNTRY.

DC/CI (in draft)
(Mr. Hunt)
E/COPS

WH/FI (by phone)
(Mr. Smyth)
DC/FE (by phone)
Mr. Smith)
for C/NE Obo

NCI/OP/DO

SECRET

GROUP I
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declossilication
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
COPY NO.
