14-00000
104-10177-10224
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: OBYEDKOV, IVAN DMITRIYEVICH
201-779495
INCLUSIVE DATES: AUG. 64 - MARCH 77
CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE RECEIVED: 15 AUG 1978
DATE RETURNED: 28 AUG 1978
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME): LOPES
SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL: En Juan Levy

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

14-00000
OUTGOING MESSAGE

CLASS CATION
SECRET

DEFERRED TELEPOUCH
CONF: 17BP-9 INFO: FILE 3201472

WASHINGTON -000781

TO: LONDON.Y

FROM: SE/CI/X INFO SE/X/EU, E/BC Y
SUBJECT: UNINTEL CKTOP JAGUAR/IVAN DMITRIYEVICH OBYEDKOV (201-779495)
REF: LONDON 81224 IN 2003461 Y

1. OBYEDKOV ACTED AS A GUARD AT THE SOVIET EMBASSY IN MEXICO CITY, ALTHOUGH HE APPEARED TO BE BETTER EDUCATED THAN HIS DUTIES AS A GUARD WOULD DEMAND. AMONG HIS MAIN DUTIES, HE TENDED THE SOVIET EMBASSY TELEPHONE, STOOD GUARD DUTY AT THE GATE, TOOK MESSAGES FOR OTHER SOVIETS, NOTIFIED THEM OF MEETINGS, AND ARRANGED APPOINTMENTS. HE ALSO OCCASIONALLY DROVE ONE OF THE EMBASSY CARS ON ERRANDS. DURING HIS TEHRAN TOUR, HE WAS ALSO LISTED AS A GUARD AT THE SOVIET EMBASSY. HE WAS OBSERVED TO BE VERY SECURITY CONSCIOUS.

2. ON BOTH PRECEDING TOURS OBYEDKOV APPEARED TO FUNCTION AS A LEGITIMATE GUARD AND WAS NEVER OBSERVED IN THE ACT OF PERFORMING ANY INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES. BECAUSE A SOVIET IS LISTED AS A GUARD AT A SOVIET EMBASSY, IT DOES NOT FOLLOW THAT HE IS NECESSARILY A KGB OFFICER. SINCE WE HAVE NO EVIDENCE TO SUPPORT AN INTELLIGENCE AFFILIATION WE WILL NO LONGER CARRY HIM AS SUSPECT RIS, PROBABLY KGB.

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

RECORD COPY
12 Mar 77
201-779495
E 2 IMPDET
CL BY:035018

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

CLASSICATION
SECRET

DEFERRED TELEPOUCH
CORP INFO: FILE

JASHINGTON
000781

3. FILE: 201-779495. E2, IMPDET.A
ORIG: SE/CI/X (JONSSON, 1911) COORD: SE/X/EU CC. BACNAMARA),
E/B (S. BROWN), C/SE/CI/X (NOYES), REL: C/E/BC CA. STIMSONBE).

DATE: 9 MARCH 1977
ORIG: JONSSON/DTM
UNIT: SE/CI/X
EXT: 19011
C/E/BC
C/SE/CI/X Abyss

SE/X/EU Maebusara

E 2
OPPICER
IMPOET
CL BY:035018

14-00000

CABLE SCC DISSEM
PERSONUMIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY ISSUPD:SLOPTED

ACTION UNIT
TPOP5
ACTION

FILE VR
SECRET
R

DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

T 636975 E1A248
PAGE 01-01
TOR:2814312 FEB 77
IN 200346
LOND 81224

SECRET 2813592 FEB 77 DEFERRED TELEPOUCH
CITE LONDON 81224
TO WASHINGTON.
FOR I SE/BIO INFO SE/CI
SUBJI WNINTEL CKTOR JAGUAR
REF I DIRECTOR 719659, 17 JUL 1975

1. JAGUAR NOTES THAT I VAN OBYEDKOV (SUBJECT REF) IS NOW
WORKING AS AN ELECTRICIAN AT SOVIET EMBASSY, LONDON, THEY
INQUIRING REASONS WHY WE CONSIDERED HIM SUSPECT RIS, PROBABLY
KGB AND ALSO ASKING, IF POSSIBLE FOR A DESCRIPTION OF THE
FUNCTION HE PERFORMED AS GUARD AT SOVIET EMBASSIES IN TE HR AN
AND MEXICO CITY.

2. FILE: 201-779495. E-2 IMP DET

SECRET
28 FEB 1977
261-774495

14-00000
OUTGOING MESSAGE

STAFF
CONF: SES INFO: FILE

DATE TING GROUP
1710362
cre
DIRECTOR

JASHINGTON
719659
POMOEA
DISSEM BY:
Sop

RETURN TO PER
0 ID PILES #

201-0779495
TO: LONDON.Y

CKTOP JAGUAR TRACEY
REF: LONDON 63248 |IN 6292481 1*1

FOR LIAISON LESS 2014 TRACE REINY
OBYEDKOV (201-0779495) AND WIFE HAVE SON, VLADIMIR,
BORN CIRCA 53. IN 65 OBYEDKOV SPOKE POOR SPANISH. OBYEDKOV WAS A
GUARD FOR THE SOV EMBASSY IN MEXICO CITY FROM 28 AUG 62 TO 4 AUG 65;
AND A GUARD FOR THE SOV EMBASSY IN TEHRAN FROM 15 AUG 67 TO PRIOR
APR 71. DURING BOTH TOURS, OBYEDKOV'S WIFE SERVED AS PRINCIPAL
OF SOV SCHOOLS. OBYEDKOV IS CONSIDERED SUSPECT RIS, PROBABLY
KGB, BASED ON HIS POSITION. E-2 IMPDET.H
*REQUEST TRACES PCS SOV.
MD 641970

RECORD COPY
DATE: 15 JULY 1975
ORIG: CHARLIE WOODWARD/CF
UNIT: SE/BIO
EXT: 1079
SE/CI/X
P
SE/X/EU
EURBC
E/BC/UK
G OFFICER

17 Jun 75
201-779495

Jackso

Bally
/SE/BIQ 15

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
AUTHENTHONG OPPOCR
E 2
IMPOET
CI AY. 0482962

14-00000

CABLE NE DIEM OV

TOTAL LOPΙΣΗ

IPHALIN UNIT NOIIIFO
AUVANCE COT SLQFIED
ALLION LINTI
555.
ACTION.
INFO
AF
FILE
SECRET
IRAN EUR 4

T 149631
Ε1Α126
PAGE 01-01
TOR:1010402. JUL 75

IN 629248
LOND 63248

SECRET 100944Z JUL 75 STAFF
CITE LONDON 63248
TOF DIRECTOR,
CKTOP JAGUAR TRACE

1. JAGUAR REQUESTS TRACES ON IVAN DMITRIYEVICH
OBEDKOV, BORN 28 JUL 27, RYAZANSKAYA OBLAST,
WIFEI YELENA LVOVNA OBEDKOVA NEE DMITRIYEVA
BORN 04 MAR 28, MOSCOW. POSTINGI TWO YEARS SOVIET
EMBASSY REPLACING ANATOLIY IVANOVICH SUKHOV
(201-905449), MD #221776

2. FILE DEFER, E2, IMPDET.

RECORD COPY
SECRET

10 Jun 75
201-779495.

14-00000
DISPATCH
PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
M

FACE
Chief, SB
Chief, NE
Chief of Station, Tehran
REDTOP AEKICK
PCS Departure - Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV
ACTION REJUTREND
X NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM

1. For your information, we no longer carry Ivan Dmitriyevich OBVEDKOV
(201-779495), guard at the Soviet Embassy in Tehran, as PCS. He was not listed
on ROGWEN's April 1971 Presence List nor their December 1971 list. We assume
he has departed PCS.

2. During OBYEDKOV's tour in Tehran his wife, Yelena, served as principal
at the Soviet school. His son was apparently in Moscow living with Yelena's mother.
On 23 October 1969, ROARC reported the grandmother calling to check with OBYEDKOV
regarding a tutor for the child. They discussed the possibility of the tutor coming
for three times a week, at five rubles per hour, but OBYEDKOV, after checking with
his wife, decided on two times a week. OBYEDKOV seemed to be very fond of his
mother-in-law. According to our AESCREEN transcriber, she was the only one that
could tell OBYEDKOV what to do.

3. The following are comments made by our AESCREEN transcriber on OBYEDKOV
on 8 July 1970:

He is very security conscious, especially in dealing with "official people" or
superiors. He mentions his name to his friends freely, but refuses to say his name
when he knows that one of the superiors is calling, "this is the duty officer" OBYEDKOV
would say several times. He often lectures people when they violate security regulations
when talking on the telephone. OBYEDKOV has to be persuaded several times or even
ATTACHMENT:

Photo, h/w

DISTRIBUTION:

C/SB, w/att., a/s
2-C/NE, wo/att.
ATT
CS COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
NITA-25520
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

DATE
7 February 1972
HOS FILE NUMBER
✓201-779495

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
SECRET
NITA-25520

begged if someone needs help (getting a vehicle or when asking for a favor), but when
he decides to help, OBYEDKOV will say with the problem until he gets results.
Although OBYEDKOVA seeras to be more cultured and better educated than her
husband, it is certain that only OBYEDKOV makes the final decisions. OBYEDKOV
could be very pleasant, helpful and even kind, but it usually depended on his mood.

5. The only Soviet we noted as being friendly with OBYEDKOV during his tour
here was Rafik Nazhaf-Ogly ABDULLAYEV (201-808524), Third Secretary, suspect
RIS, probable KGB. When speaking to one another they used the familiar "ty".
We do not know the extent of their relationship.

4. Forwarded herewith is a photograph, date unknown, received from ROGWEN.
We have destroyed the Station file.
Marcia A. BURGOON
SECRET
281-714-495

14-00000
SECRET
De Filled Iny
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE
SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
2. RI FILE NO.
3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC, SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE
7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 6. DATE OF INFO.
EVALUATION
8. DATE PROCESSED
10. DISSEMINATED IN
11. DATE
DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
12- CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE
13. TRANSFERRED TO
RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

ORYEDKOV, IVAN DMITRIYEVICH
201-779495
SEX M DO8 ?
CIT?
OCC ?
041-008-005
NITA-23060401
09 DEC 68
P4
CHIEF GUARD, SUSPECT RIS. WIFE YELENA LVNOVNA
IS DIRECTOR, DEPENDENTS SCHOOL.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
FORM 867
0-57vious EDITIONS.
SECRET
R 6903190152
FILE IN 201-779.495

14-00000
DISPATCH
SUBJECT
Chief, SB
Chief, NB
Chief of Station, Tehran
SECRET
X
REDTOP: Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV (201-ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
1. Request traces on:
Ivan Daitriyevin OBYEDKOV (201-779415)
Born 27 August 1927, Ryazan
passport: S-105042 issued 26 May 1967
wife: Yelena born 1923, Moscow
MICROFILMED
passport: S-105043 issued 26 May 1967
occupation: guard, Soviet Embassy, Tehran
arrived: 15 August 1967.

Photocopies of the OBYEDKOVS passports are attached.

2. According to the 1963 and 1964 Checklists of Soviet Officials Abroad,
one Ivan Ivanovich OBYEDKOV (201-121531); born 14 July 1912; wire Yelena;
A number 04377, was present in Mexico City since August 1962 as an employee
of the Soviet Embassy. The. Checklist for 1965, lists one Ivan Dmitriyevich
OBYEDKOV (201-779495); born 14 July 1912; wife Yelena; A number 41970, as an
employee of the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City since August 1962. Apparently
these two OBYEDKOVS are one in the same and although Subject's birthdate is
different we believe he is identical with the OBYEDKOV who served in Mexico City.
Recently a conversation was recorded on ROARC during waich Subject used several
Spanish words and expressions. It is possible Subject acquired a knowledge of
Spanish during a previous tour in a Spanish speaking country such as Mexico.
Please compare the attached photo of Subject with that of the OBYEDKOV who was
assigned to Mexico City to determine if they are identical.
1
Veronica L. ANTELARKE

RIS INPUT NO.
14
Attachment: As stated, h/w

Distribution:
2 C/SB w/att
1
C/NE w/o/att
CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
DATE
7 September 1967
NITA-21,826

CLASSIFICATION
HOS FILE NUMSER
SECRET
201-

14-00000

DISPATCH
hief of Station, Tearan
Chief, Se via Chief, N
REDTOP LORTROVE
Ivanditriyexich EDKY (201-77415)
REFERENCE: VITA-21826, 7 Septemver 1907
A
1. Forwarded herewith are re Sumary Traces in Stk format on
Ivan Dmitriyevich DGYEUKOV (201-779495) who is suspect RIS.
Paragraph 20 of the Summary is for passage to liaison.

2.. Subject is not identical to Ivan Ivanovich OBYLDKOV
(201-121531). When Subject first arrived in Mexico in August 1962,
he was reported as Ivan Ivanovich and this orror was not corrected
until May 1905; therefore, two Checklists carried the wrong aan
PCS in Mexico. When the records were corrected, the Subject's
birthdate was not, and the same date was listed for both parties.
Headquarters records do not list a wife or other dependents for
Ivan Ivanovich OBYDKOV and, as far as is known, he has not been
assigned abroad PCS prior to the date of this dispatch.

ATTACHMENT:

"Soviet Personality Report" h/w

DISTRIBUTION:

3 COS, Tehran w/att., a/s

RIS
7
NITA-11583

13 November 1967
HOS FILE NUMBER

201-779495

SB/O/NE Betty Given
Y-RID w/att.
1-SB/O/NE w/att..
1-SB/CI/K wo/att.
1-SB/CI/G wolatt.
CSB/O/NE 2016?
SD/CI/K 22.65
SB/CI/G
14-00000

SECRE

PREPARED BY:
DATE:
Rita N. TOLJANIC
3 October 1967
201-NUMBER: 201-779495
A NUMBER: A 41970

1. NAME: Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV

2. DPOB: 27 August 1927 or 19 July 1927 in Ryazan

3. CITIZENSHIP AND PASSPORT DATA:
    a. USSR
    ۵۰ Service passport S009260, used while Subject was in Mexico
    c. Service passport S105042, issued 26 May 1967

4. CURRENT POSITION:
Guard in the Soviet Embassy, Tehran

7. RELATIVES:
    c. spouse Yelena Lvovna possibly nee DMITRIYEVA, born 1928
in Moscow. She traveled to Mexico on Service
passport S009270. She served as the director
of the Soviet Primary School in Mexico City
and ran the summer camp in Cuernavaca.

d. children a son, Vladimir Ivanovich, born 1953.

e. Boris Lvovich DMITRIYEV and Mariya Borisovna DMITRIYEVA,
who are probably wife's brother and sister-in-law. During
Subject's stay in Mexico they occupied Subject's apartment
in Moscow, given as Moscow E-143, Metrogorodok, Otkrytoye
Shosse 26, Building 7, Apartment 69, telephone G3-72-34.

AHI NITW 11583
SECRET
201-779445
14-00000
SECRE
-2-

7. (cont'd)
In May 1964 Subject spoke to "Boris" in Moscow about certain
purchases for the apartment, and Subject's wife also spoke
to her mother, who apparently lived with Boris and his wife.

8. LANGUAGES:
Russian - native

Spanish - poor
SECRET

14-00000
SECRET
-3-

9. PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION AND PHOTOS:
Photo number S010797
DMITRIVECH
201-709495
DPOB: CA 30
WIFE:LA IMUNA ECA 30

S010797...
SECRET

14-00000
SECRET
-4-

10. PERSONALITY, CHARACTER, AND HABITS:

Although Subject acted as a guard at the Soviet Embassy
in Mexico, he appeared to be fairly well educated and was
not subservient to any of the other Soviets, with the
exception of Counselor Boris Aleksandrovich KAZANTSEV.
(201-028975). On one occasion Subject was reported to be
helping the daughter of Commercial Counselor Georgiy
Stepanovich VISKO with her arithmetic homework. On another,
Subject was asked about methods of producing metal wire,
a subject on which Subject was well informed as a result of
his having once worked for a wire factory.

Subject had a tape recorder at home which he liked to
listen to. lle also occasionally went fishing with other Soviets..

Subject told "Boris" in Moscow to build a large garage,
because he was bringing a big car back with him. He also
asked whether Boris had bought a refrigerator and TV for the
apartment. On another occasion he was negotiating for a can
of paint to take back to Moscow with him to repaint "the
Moskvich". Subject and his wife were both buying watches
just before leaving Mexico. From the above it appears
that Subject was fairly well-off financially, for a guard.

SECRET
14-00000
SECRET
-5-

11. CURRICULUM VITAE:
Date unknown
Subject reportedly worked at the Serp i Molot
(wire) factory in Leningrad.

28 August 1962
Subject, accompanied by wife and son, arrived
PCS in Mexico as an employee of the Soviet
Embassy. Subject replaced Vyacheslav
Aleksandrovich YEGOROV (201-273431), who
is suspect GRU.

6-19 November 1962
Subject was in the hospital in Mexico City.
On the 11th of November he underwent a
three hour operation of unspecified nature.
The other Soviets had to guard him when
he came out of the operating room.

17 August 1963
Subject stated that he had just returned from
a trip with Valentin Vasilyevich BAKULIN
(201-261813), who is known GRU. There was no
information on where or why the trip was taken.

4 August 1965
Subject departed Mexico PCS, transiting Belgium
on his return to the USSR. He was accompanied
by Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV (201-305052)
who is known KGB. Subject was replaced by
Ivan Petrovich KARCHIN (201-782164).

SECRET
14-00000
SECRET

12. INTELLIGENCE AFFILIATION:

Mexico City Station considers Subject suspect RIS because
he appears better educated that his duties as a guard would
demand, because he seems financially better off than other
Soviet guards and because of his apparent association on
equal footing with Soviet RIS officers. DERYABIN in 1955
advised LNERGO that the surname OBYEDKOV was familiar to him
as the name of a person who was in the Guards Directorate of
the MVD in 1951.

In September 1967 DERYABIN and RASTVOROV said that they
neither recognized the face nor the name of the Subject.
(Both Ivan Ivanovich and Ivan Dmitriyevich were seen by the
defectors and they did not recognize either of them.)

13. INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITY:

There was no intelligence activity noted on the Subject's
part while he was stationed in Mexico.

14. NON-INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITY:

Subject primarily handled the main Soviet telephone and
took guard duty at the gate. Subject took messages for other
Soviets, notified them of meetings, and contacted them for
appointments with each other. He occasionally drove one of
SECRET
201-779495
14-00000
SECRE

14. (cont'd)
the Embassy cars on errands. ile kept a ledger of the telegrams
sent out by the Embassy and notified other Soviets when cables
came in for them.

15. CONTACTS:
    a. Soviet friends and associates.

1. Valeriy Aleksandrovich ANDRIANOV (201-293945),
employee in the Soviet Trade Representation in
Mexico from February 1961 to May 1964, suspect
RIS. When the ANDRIANOVS left Mexico they were
planning to get in touch with Subject's family
in Moscow.

2. Aleksandr Mikhaylovich DENISOV (201-726491), Second
Secretary at the Soviet Embassy in Mexico from
August 1962 to April 1967, known GRU. Subject
appeared not to like DENISOV. It also appeared
that DENISOV was responsible for reimbursing
Subject for the gas Subject used in KUKHARENKO's
саг.

3. Aleksey Nikolayevich GANIN (201-757775), known GRU
officer who visited Mexico 31 July 14 August 1964.
SECRET

14-00000

SECRET
-8-
4. Subject, along with other Soviets who were
known GRU officers, met GAVIN on his visit to
Mexico.

5. Sergey Semenovich KUKHARENKO (201-260831), chief
of the Soviet information Bulletin in Mexico from
October 1962 to August 1964, suspect KGB. Subject
and KUKHARENKO were the best of friends for a
time, but ther KUKHARENKO began drinking too
much and getting into various scrapes. Subject
frequently commiserated with KUKHARENKO's wife
over her husband's drinking, automobile accidents,
money problems. Subject occasionally used
KUKHARENKO's car..

6. Oleg Pavlovich MOSKVICHEV (201-285090), employee
in the Soviet Trade Representation in Mexico
from March 1961 to July 1964, known KGB. Subject
gave MOSKVICHEV his home address in MosCOM.

7. Vladimir Nikolayevich RADVANSKIY (201-298171),
code clerk at the Soviet Embassy in Mexico from
September 1964 to March 1967, known KGB. Subject
is not known to have associated with RADVANSKIY;
however, Subject's wife and RADVANSKAYA worked
together in the school and children's camp, and
SECRET
14-00000

15. (cont'd)
SECRET
-9-
RADVANSKAYA took over the camp after Subject's
wife left Mexico. RADVANSKAYA asked Subject's
wife to tell her (RADVANSKAYA'S) daughter to
enter the institute when she saw her in Moscow.

16. Vladimir Aleksandrovich ROMANCHENKO (201-727109),
Second Secretary of the Soviet Embassy in Mexico
from August 1963 to July 1967, no known RIS
affiliation. When ROMANCHENKO was in Moscow
on leave in May 1964, Subject told "Boris"
(believed to be Subject's brother-in-law) to
send letters to him through ROMANCHENKO when
he came back to Mexico.

17. Georgiy Stepanovich VISKO (201-243602), Commercial
Counselor in Mexico from July 1962 to circa
December 1966, suspect GRU. Subject's wife
and Mrs. VISKO taught together in the school
and seemed to be good friends. Subject also
seemed to be friends with Mrs. VISKO, and he
reportedly helped the VISKO's daughter with her
arithmetic homework on at least one occasion.

SECRET
14-00000

20. TRACES FOR LIAISON:
SECRET
-10-
Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV, born 27 August 1927,
accompanied by his wife Yelena Lvovna, and son, Vladimir
Ivanovich, born 1953, were stationed in Mexico City from
August 1962 to August 1965. Subject was a guard in the
Soviet Embassy. Subject is suspect RIS.
SECRET
201-777475

14-00000

Some of
I would like to have relief all the material pertaining to to
ining
Kan Amitigenich Abyistker (201-779/95) smrud from
Par vidrsnmich Obyulkovis file (701-121531) and
into an Emitrijevické file.
uc
uclarifiest
I his material to be removed has Foar Pranovick's
nine on it and refe refers to his being PC5 in nefico, which
he wan
not, wan
Dmitrijevich
was.
if thi's note is του confusing and you have
further question please call Detty bien, 50/0/NE,
8x1043.

OC OCT 1967
14-00000
DISPATCH
Chief, 33 Division
Chief, WN Division
SECRET
Chief of Station, Mexico City
REDTOP - Voice Samples of Soviets in Mexico
ACT NESCES
Forwarded herewith for Headquarters retention are voice
sazples, taken from LIENVOY, of the following Soviets previouely
stationed in Mexico:

Ivan Gavrilovich ALFERTEV (201-236701)
Yuriy Aleksandrovich ANDRIANOV (201-230429)
Ivan Afanasyevich PEKETOV (201-754500)
Ina Nikolayevna BOLDOVA (201-245416)
Vasiliy Karpovich BUTSEV (201-273883)
Yuriy Aleksandrovich DOERACHEV (20)-297666)
Aleksey Ivanovich GARMASHEV (2010277418)
Vladimir Petrovich GULIN (201-734995)
Viktor Petrovich KALININ (201-735049)
Nikolay Konstantinovich KELEBNIKΟΥ (201-227420)
Sergey Sergeyevich KONSTANTINDY (201-101794)
Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSTINν (201-305052)
Sergey Semenovich KUZHARENKO (201-260831)
Oleg Maksimovich NECHIPORENKO (201-305870)
Vladimir Petrovich OBRUBOV (201-731394)
Ivan Daitriyevich OBYEDKOV (201-779495)
Aleksandr Patrovich PAVLOV (201-761265)
Georgiy Aleksandrovich BHCHUCHKIN (201-242728)
Vasilty Vasilyevich SIMONOV (201-735055)
Bergey Iosifovich SOKOLOVSKIY (201-025485)
Gennadiy Pedorovich STROGANOV (201-735030)
Georgiy Stepanovich VISKO (201-243602)

Attachment:
Voice samples

Distribution:
CROSS REFERENCE TO
2 - CSB, w/att., H/V
1 - CWB, w/o att.

for/Villard C. CURTIS

Cite Olpedkon
201-779195

HMMA - 31217
SECRET
DATE
27 JANUARY 1967
Pica

50-8-10/1
14-00000

1.
OBYROKOV &WIFE
15-60-55 Dec. 16,614 L34-M5-1537 51 to 490
In. 1532 hrs. IRA VISKO & ANDREY SOROLO7 talk to
CONFDLCV in Russian.

2.
81161#
15-60-55 12 Dec. 64 131-18-157
Out. 1919 hrs. CBYRDKOV telks to New York in
Sparich.

15-60-55 18 Ecc. El 13--17
#62
1939 hrs. MF talks to OBYRDKOV in Spanish.
4.
OBYTKOV & WIFE
15-60-55 26 Dec. 64 L34-M8-T594 #328
In. OBYEDKOV talks to his wife in Russian.

CRYEDKOV
201-779495
14-00000

TO
INIO.
FROM
DISPATCH
SUBJECT
Chief, SR Division
Chief, WH Division
CLASSIFI
ION
SECRET
Chief_of Station, Mexico City
REDWOOD - Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV
ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES
REFERENCE: HMMA-26177, 28 May 1965
SR TRAVEL INPUT PROGRAM

1. LIFIRE reported the departure on 7 July 1965 via Sabena
flight 556 for Brussels (and the USSR) of Subject's wife and son.
According to LIENVOY, Subject will follow in September.
known known whether this travel is PCS or TDY.
It is not

2. Travelling on the same flight with Subject was Lyudmila
Ivanovna ZHEVTUN (201-754502), who has gone on home leave to
the USSR.

3. The Station would appreciate a reply to the Reference,
which requested clarification of Subject's identity.

Distribution:
2- CSR
1 CWH

for
Willard C. CURTIS

Exched"
declassica..
201-779495

CS COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
ΗΜΜΑ 26658
CLASSIFICATION
DATE
22 JULY 1965
HOS FILE NUMBER
201-
FFN: P-8125

14-00000

TO
INFO.
FROM
DISPATCH
Chief, SR Division
Chief, WH Division
Chief of Station, Mexico City
SUBJECT
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
REDWOOD - Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV (201-779495)
ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES
REFERENCES: A. HMMA-26824, 10 August 1965
B. MEXI-4485, 19 August 1965
1. Reference A reported the departure of Subject from Mexico on 4 August
1965. The Station now believes that Subject departed PCS, and that he has possibly
been replaced by Ivan Petrovich KARCHIN, whose arrival on 14 August 1965 was
reported in Reference B.

2. According to LIENVOY, KARCHIN has been answering the telephone at the