---
14-00000
104-10177-10220

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: McLENDON, GORDON
201-79764

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:
ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE | DATE | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
------- | -------- | -------- | --------
16/MAY/78 | | LESLIE WIRELMAN | Leslie Wirelman

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

14-00000
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
When Filled In 6 Jan 1975

Review of 201 File on U.S. Citizen

In accordance with the DDO's notice of 9 December 1974,
I have reviewed the 201 file on McLENDON (surname)
(201 number indicated below), and have determined that it can
most accurately be categorized as indicated below:

☐ should be closed.

☐ witting collaborator. OI Code Al.

☑ potential witting collaborator, date opened .
OI Code A2.

☐ former witting collaborator (relationship terminated).
OI Code A3.

☐ potential witting collaborator never contacted (security
reasons, derogatory information). OI Code A4.

☐ counterintelligence case (i.e., involving a foreign
intelligence or security service). OI Code A5.

☐ all others. OI Code A6.

Signed Lam H. GIRARDI IPIANP
(name) (title) (component)

This assignment of category has been entered into STAR.
Signed LK 6/75 1975
(initials) (date)

This document is a permanent part of this file.
201-79764.
When Filled In E2 IMPDET
C-U-N-F-1-D-L-T-1-A-L CL BY 054979

---

14-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: John K. McLean

SECRET
3 May 1972

1.  On 28 April the undersigned was introduced to Mr. John
McLean by Mr. Wallace Lampshire, a staff officer. The purpose
of the meeting was to discuss Mr. McLean's connection with Mr.
Gordon Barton McLendon (201-79764) and Mr. McLendon's stated
desire to help his government.

2.  Mr. McLean is a former staff officer (DDI/OCI) who
resigned to enter the field of finance. He has been a banker,
a stock broker (Sade & Co.) and currently is Vice-President
and Treasurer of International Ventures, Inc., 888 17th Street
N.W., Washington 20006, as well as Vice-President of Riviere
& Berens Securities Corp., stockbrokers located at 1832 M St.,
N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036.

3.  Mr. McLendon was born in Paris, Texas 8 June 1921
and now lives in Dallas. According to Who's Who in the South
and Southwest, Mr. McLendon is the owner of a number of radio
stations and is listed as the president of numerous companies
in radio, TV, and motion picture theatre fields. Mr. McLendon
is reputedly a multi-millionaire.

4. Mr. McLean and Mr. McLendon have maintained a friend-
ship since their years at Yale. Mr. McLean recently visited
Mr. McLendon at his ranch some thirty miles from Dallas. During
this visit Mr. McLendon expressed his fears of the future of the
dollar and said that he has moved millions of his dollars to
Europe where the money has been put into Swiss and French francs,
plus German marks. Most of the money is apparently in savings
instruments of one kind or another plus a night club that Mr.
McLendon has bought in Stockholm. During these conversations,
Mr. McLendon wondered if these foreign operations might not be
of interest to the Government (read CIA as Mr. McLendon was
an ONI officer during WW II and is aware of Mr. McLean's former
employment with the Agency.) Mr. McLendon mentioned his night
club as a possibility, as it is frequented by persons of many
countries, including the USSR.

SECRET

---

14-00000

SECRET

5. Mr. McLean has business interests in Dallas and
said that he is willing to explore this possibility with
Mr. McLendon if we provide guidance.

6. Mr. McLean himself perhaps offers more potential
via International Ventures, Inc. Mr. McLean is seeking
venture capital opportunities abroad. For example, he
and a Mr. Lincoln Epworth in New York City are working
with a Japanese named Ikvo Kasai who is President of
Nichimen Co. of Tokyo, a firm seeking to export to the
States. Mr. McLean was frank to say that International
Ventures is more a dream than a reality in terms of busi-
ness but the concern is making progress. Mr. McLean offered
to be of any assistance.

Comment: I have sent for Mr. McLean's file and upon its
receipt I will seek a PCSA.

Frederick Larkin, Jr.
CCS/CFB

FL/ekw

-2-
SECRET

---

14-00000
FROM: | WILCOXEN ELI | 61-924 | NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST
------ | ------- | ------- | -------
| CCS/CFE | 21CKEY | DATE 19 April 1972
| EXT. 3543 | IYFU | RID CONTROL NO.

Tube | Room | Date | Initials | Checking Instructions and Notes
------- | ------- | -------- | -------- | --------
RID/INDEX DT-S | 124003 | 4/72 | ma | ENTER NO. OF REFERENCES ORDERED

REQUESTER
R.O/FILES DT-S | GC52 |
REQUESTER
RID/ANALYSIS GT-7 | GASO |
RID/INDEX DT-S | 184003 |
SURNAME Mc LENDON, Gordon Barton | Subject To Be Checked
GIVEN NAMES
SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE CHECKED | 201 NO. IF KNOWN
MAC

AKA, ALIASES
SEX | DATE OF BIRTH | PLACE OF BIRTH | OTHER IDENTIFYING DATA (Occupation, CP membership, I. S. affiliations, etc.)
--- | -------- | -------- | --------
M | 8 June 1921 | Paris, Texas | See "Who's Who in the South and Southwest", Eleventh Edition, P. 677

CITIZENSHIP U.S.A. | RESIDENCE 9300 Douglas Street, Dallas, Texas
-------- | --------
RESULTS OF RAD/INDEX CHECK

PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION
CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED | COMMENTS FVLC

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS:
TO ORDER DOCUMENTS:
1. REVIEW INDEX CARD REPRODUCTIONS.
2. DRAW GREEN DIAGONAL LINE ACROSS ITEMS YOU DO
NOT WANT.
3. FORWARD TO RID/FILES.

TO EDIT THE CARD REPRODUCTIONS:
AFTER RECEIPT OF THE DOCUMENTS, EDIT THE CARD
REPRODUCTIONS ACCORDING TO CHI 70-19.
2. TO DESTROY CARDS: MARK THE CARD REPRODUCTION WITH
A GREEN D, AND CITE THE REASON.
TO MAKE CORRECTIONS/ADDITIONS: ENTER THE CHANGES
ON THE CARD REPRODUCTIONS IN GREEN INK
3. FORWARD TO R.D/AN, VIA YOUR RECORDS, OFFICER.

FOR 201 CONSOLIDATION (SEE CS: 70-20):
IF SUBJECT HAS A 201 FILE, RETURN ONLY THIS
FORM TO RID/AN WITH PRODUCTIONS OF INDEX
CARDS MARKED IN GREEN TO REFLECT THE
CONSOLIDATION ACTION TAKEN.
WHEN SUBJECT HAS NO 201 FILE, BUT MEETS THE
REQUIREMENT FOR OPENING A 201 FILE, RETURN
THIS FORM TO RID/201:
A. A COMPLETED FORM 8311
B. ALL PERTINENT DOCUMENTS, EXTRACTS, AND
PROPERLY EDITED INDEX CARD REPRODUCTIONS
FOR CONSOLIDATION OF THE FILE BY RID/201.

CHECKLIST OF OTHER INDICES: REQUESTER SHOULD ALSO CONSIDER TRACING THE FOLLOWING SOURCES WHICH ARE NOT CHECKED BY RID/INDEX (SEE NAME TRACE HANDBOOK).
SOURCE | DATE REQUESTED | DATE RECEIVED | SOURCE | DATE REQUESTED | DATE RECEIVED
------- | ------- | ------- | ------- | ------- | -------
CS... D/DSA | | | CENTRAL REFERENCE SERVICE | |
RID ARCHIVES | | | CIA LIBRARY | |
30 BIOGRAPHICS C | | | OFFICE OF MEDICAL SERVICES | |
APPLICANTS FILE | | | CONTACT NAME CHECK | |

---

14-00000

PCLENDON, GORDON BARTON
SEX M DOB 08 JUN 21.
USA, TEXAS, PARIS
CITUSA
OCC PRES
REF

USA, TEXAS, DALLAS
PCLENDCA BROADCAST SYSTEM.
201-0797640
TYPE NAME T
OCC CODE BUSP.
01 CODE ?

160000000
CORR CARD 6605250198

---

14-00000

ITEM | DATE | SECRET
------- | ------- | -------
|(When Filled In)
BRIEF RECORD OF CASE ACTION | INITIALS
| REMARKS

This MUST be the TOP, unserialized document
MINUTE SHEET in File Number 201-

---

14-00000

Memorandum For: DO/590 (for Mr. Beers)

Reference: Request for traces and clearance

Project: WUENTREE

Subject: See below

Name: MCLENDON, Gordon Barton
DOB: 8 June 1921, Paris, Texas
CIS: USA
RES: 9300 Douglas St., Dallas, Texas
OCC: McLendon Broadcast System
BUS: 2104 Jackson St., Dallas, Texas

19 February 1966
Date

Trace Results:

No record in addition to 201-79764 which is attached herewith on permanent
charge to DO/CO/Beers.

CI/CA file JG-9545 was reviewed and found to contain no information in
addition to that contained in Subject's dossier. You will note that a
request made by FE Division for a CSC on Subject was denied by the Office
of Security on 29 July 1952.

Areas Checked:

FID Area Division Central Cover Staff x Office of Security

OCR: Micrographics Register Foreign Installations Branch Library
Other
Form 772 requesting PCSA/CSA was forwarded to (Security)Fieldx.

A copy of this memorandum has been sent to RID for classification into
file

Attachment: 201-79764
Distribution:
Orig. Addressee

SECR
DO/CS

---

14-00000

TO: SECRET
REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION
(Always handcarry 1 copy of this form)
PLEASE COMPLETE EACH SECTION AND APPROPRIATE BLANK

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION
X CHIEF, INVESTIGATION AND SUPPORT DIVISION, OFFICE OF SECURITY
CHIEF. PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION, OFFICE OF SECURITY

SUBJECT: MOLENDON, Gordon Barton PROJECT WUENTREE
(True name)
CRYPTONYM. PSEUDONYM, AKA CALIASES
CIAGA FILE NO. | 201 FILE NO.
SO FILE NO.
1. TYPE ACTION REQUESTED
PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
X PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL
COVERT SLCURITY APPROVAL
CONTRACT TYPE A.
2. SPECIFIC AREA OF USE US
FULL DETAILS OF USE
PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
COVERT NAME CHECK
SPECIAL INQUIRY (SO field investigation)
CONTRACT TYPE 8

30 December 1965
FROM: DO/00

Subject will be contacted and assessed on a witting basis in support of WUENTREE.
Subject is President of McLendon Corporation of Dallas, Texas and is also owner of
several radio stations. He was born in Paris, Texas on 8 June 1921. Le resides at
9300 Douglas Street, Dallas, Texas and has a ranch in Denton, Texas. During World
War II, he served as a Japanese Language Officer in intelligence for the US Navy
from 1943-45. He is the author of "The Old Scotchman's Scrapbook"

4. INVESTIGATION AND COVER
A. U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION? YES | NO
B. CIA INTEREST MAY BE SHOEN DURING INVESTIGATION? YES | NO
C. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM X
D. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HIM? X
E. INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE IN THE INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.
F. SUGGEST "COVER PRETEXT BE USED IN CONDUCTING PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.
S. DO YOU PLAN TO MAKE SUBJECT BITTING OF AGENCY OR GOVERNMENT INTEREST.? YES | NO
IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA, EXPLAIN FULLY

5. PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS
PRO ID WILL BE FORWARDED.
PRO ID. OR EQUIVALENT. IN (2) COPIES ATTACHED
GREEN LIST ATTACHED NO
PRO ID. OR EQUIVALENT IN LE COPY ATTACHED. 6. RI TRACES
NO RECORD BILL FORWARD NON-DEROGATORY DEROGATORY ATTACHED
7. DIVISION TRACES
NO RECORD BILL FORWARD NON-DEROGATORY DEROGATORY ATTACHED
8. FIELD TRACES
NO RECORD WILL FORWARD
DEROGATORY ATTACHED
LIST SONGS CHECKED
NOT INITIATED (Explanatio
SINGNATURE OF CASE OFFICER Peter Beers
FORM 772
NON-DEROGATORY INFO SIGNIFICANT INFO ATTACHED
EXTENSION SIGNATURE OF BRANCH CHIEF William A. Foyer
SECRET

---

14-00000

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBVECT OF DOCUMENT | RI FILE NO. | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
DATE PROCESSED | DISPATCH DECE OOC, SYMBOL | DATE
ANALYST | SOURCE CISSEN DATA OF INFO. | EVALUATION
RI FILE N.
CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE
DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
TRANSFER TO
RT FILE N.
PERTINENT INFORMATION
J-9545

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
• 79714
(17-44)
1 WAY 134
FORM NO. 867 167, 34
SECRET
... P. O. 10 408.

---

14-00000
江
!!
24 May 19th

ATTH: 51/
Chief, 3

Disposition of Files

1. Forwarded hereinith for your disposition are thirty-eight (38) files,
considered acr-restricted by E, for the following lists

Razo | Cute of air
Sendor, Berdon Barton about 19220 //data/okla

2. Subjects are no longer in use by Whis office.

Criginated by: Ursa 7. Char
:

Diets Addressee - Crig & 23 Suby - 1 out
PE-1, C(Fawlinson) - 1
PE-1 (anno) - 1

FORIGERSE. ELL
Olof: F

SES CAYTRE, Faivatoro Bernardo ملاء
Cate of Birthe Jost 29, 1910; Piace of Birth: ...٢.

1-7770

---

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED CIA INTERNAL | CONFIDENTIAL | SECRET
SUBJECT: Optional ONLY
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

FROM NO FE/1
DATE

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and DATE OFFICERS
building) INITIALS to show Draw a line across columns after each comment)
RECD FWD D

1.

2.
MCLENDON Garden Satu

3.
4.
5.
6:
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.

13.
2 NOV 16 1956

14.

15.

FORM 610 EDITIONS Use PREVIOUS
SECRET CONFIDENTIAL CIA INTERNAL
USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED

---

14-00000

29 JUL 952

Chief, Staff C
attendance Staff C/FPD
Chief, Special Security Division

JO 9545
69488 McLendon, Gordon Barton

1. Reference is made to your request for a covert security
clearance for the subject, who is the president of a company
which will provide accreditation in Japan to a contract agent of
this organization.

2. This is to advise that the covert security clearance,
as roghesed, ta hereby denied.

FOR THE SECURITY OFFICER, CIA:
:
Robert K. Cara

---

14-00000
Security information

27 July 100m

ПООРАТАЦ GO
VLA

PAT
TC/PB
!

: Conton Barton Hobonion

1. It is reposted that the case on Cosion anston BoLendon
be closed, since this office has no further interest in andjon.

3. TOO masoct for covort somurity of cases on My, Mchenton
vos caluitted on 11 February 197.
Dist: Addresses - Oric. &1
(03-1
FE/T-1
STC/SPB - 1
F/HI/PC armo - 1

LLOYD OMONO
CMar, 1

---

14-00000
HEMORANDUM TO: OD/CP/Sec SECRET
FROM: FS/III/PC 11 February 1952

SUBJECT: Gordon Barton Mciendon

1. Covert Clearance, for use as outined below, it is requested for Subject,
on whom available information is submitted separately.

Op. Clearance XX Security Clearance Op. Support Sp. Inquiry
2. Use of Subject: (State in detail the scope and nature of activities to
be performed, their duration, the area involved, project involved, etc.)

Subject is the president of a commany which will provide
accreditation in Japan to a contract agent of this organization.
It is not émected that subject will learn of the agent's coniection
with this organization, however, clearance is requested to go
in forn subject of the connection if the need may arise at a later date..
Subject will know nothing of operations conducted by this agent, only that
// ne is connected with CIA.

3. "Cover" story suggested for investigation: Governmental XX Commercial
Details: General Credit Other
4. Limits, if any, to investigation: None

5. Is Subject aware that an investigation is in process: Yes No X
6. Is Subject aware of CIA interest? Yes No X
7. Has Subject been briefed on "cover" story?. Yes No X
8. Has Subject established "cover" for investigation
with probable contacts? Yes No I
9. Is Prov. Operational Clearance necessary? Yes No X
10. Investigation to be Rout ine Expedite
Must be completed b: 1Jze 1952
11. REMARKS:

Security Officer Case Officer Howell d. Christy

Branch Crict James Gl. Kole

---

14-00000
SECRET

TO: ASST. DEPUTY (SFECTION & SECURITY) Date:
FROM: CD/CD/PC (5) J.G.:
: SUBJECT:

1. Necessary covert investigation is requested on Subject on whom all available
background data is submitted separately. Information and/or clearance is
requested for case category as follows:

Operational Cl. IISecurity Cl. Sp. Inquiry Operational Support

2. Name of Special Project (if applicable): DTMIKADO
3. Investigation to be completed as: ☑ Routine Expedite
by not later then 1 June 1952-

4. Scope and nature of use or activity:
:

Subject is the president of a commany which will provide pott/
accreditation in Japan to a contract agent of this cranization. It is not
expected that subject: learn of the agent's connection with this
organization, hoverer,

5. Suggested "cover" for investigation: Governmental Commercial
: Other
Specific:
6. Limitations, if any, on investigation:

7. Subject HAS/HAS BOT been briefed that investigation is pending.
8. Subject HAS/HAS NOT been briefed on "cover" story to be used in investigation.
9. Subject HAS/HAS NOT indicated to probable investigative contacts investiga-
tion pending.
10. Subject. HAS/HAS NOT indicated to probable investigative contacts "cover".
story to be used.
11. CIA indices checks required for provisional operational clearance by

12. REMARKS:

FORM 50.
1931 منشية 09-16 (TEST)
:
JORN F. BREWER
SECRET

---

14-00000
Name- Gordon Barton McLendon
Address-9300 Douglas, Dallas Texas Lou This
20 this correct
shled. it se sramille

Place of Birth-atlanta Texas/(dabelle Oklahoma-ege 30
Military History-1942 Entered Navy Javanese Language School, Boulder, Colo.

1943- Graduated Kary Japanese Lgic, School
1944-CommissionedUSNavy Assigned as Intelighte Officer, UNIL
Pischarged as Lt(JG)
Education-Graduated Yale University
1946-ittended Harvard Law School
Wife's Name-GAV Noe (Daughter of Janes A. Noe former Gov. of Louisiana
Subject has fourenildren...
Present Occupation- President of Liberty Broadcasting System.

---

14-00000
FE
ABSTRACT OF DOCUMENT BEING C205S FILED CROSS FILED BY
ANALOST
FIL DATE OF DOCUMENT
201405
JG-9545 STC/SPE XXXX

SUBLEC
XXXX DATE
MELENDON, Gordon Barton
Born
26 Jain
Atlanta, Teya adabile,
Oklahome, Come, alga 30 (in 95)
PERTINENT INFORMATION
THERE IS A PESTRICTED STC/SPB FOLDER ON THE
SUBJECT OF THIS 201 HELD IN RI/AR FILE,
WASH-CIA-PERS-4.

137

CROSS REFERENCE FORM
FILE THIS FORM IN FILE PO.
201797604
CWAY 3.
