104-10516-10348

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLACCIF
FO

1/0

INTEL CYPIC ONE
SUPDATA COURCE
FROM
R
210
TALINA AND FRENCH AME
CUBA, CUBAN MERCHANTS AND SUGAR EXPERTS
FL.LED 21/14352
REPORT CLASS SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM HAM-8135 SUBJECT EFFORTE
OF CUBAN GOVERNMENT TO INITIATE COMERCIAL BARTER WITH WEST
EUROPEAN CONTRIES DOI DEC 63 PADA MEXICO MEXICO CITY 20 DEG 63
AF? 3
SOURCE WESTERN EUROPEAN BUS MESSMAN WHO TRAVELS FREQUENTLY
TO CUBA WHERE, HIS COMPANY MAINTAINS COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.

RODECKTHΣ ATTAC
TO FORT

TOCS
PRECEDOCE
ROUTINE
PRICOTY
DATE CISTE

SEC

COUNTAY

SECRET
INFORMATION REPORT!
DATE OF
PLACES
DATE ACO
APPRAISAL
SOURCE

THE UNEVALUATED FORMATION:
THE CUBAN GOVERIMENT, HAS RENEWED NEGOTIATIONS FOR THE
PAYMENT OF DEBTS RESULTING FROM EXPROPRIATIONS MADE FROM CERTAIN
WESTERN EUROPEAN BUSINESS INTERESTS. THE CUỐÂN MINISTRY OF FOREIGN
TRADES IS TRYING TO INTEREST WEST GERMANY, ITALY AND FRANCE IN
COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES SO THAT A FAVORABLE ATMOSPHERE WILL PREVAIL
AT THE TIME OF THE COMPLETION OF THE SUCAR CROP HARVEST, IN MARCH
1964, "WHEN THE COPODITY IS MORVALLY MARKETED. NEGOTIATIONS FOR
REPARATIONS ARE TAKING FORM IN CUZAN CEFERS TO SELL TOBACCO AT
DISCOUNT FRICES:
2. IN ORDER OF PRIORITY, THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT IS TRYING TO COTAIN
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTACLS

SECRET
TELEGRAMINFORMATION REPORTE

RELE
BADES
قسمة

SECRET
FERTILIZER, TRANSPORTA
in
FACILITIES AND CHEMICAL PRODUCTS IN
EXCHANGE FOR SUGAR ON A STRATCHT PARTER DEAL THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT
EXPECTS A COSER CROP IN IS WHICH IF SOLD AT THE AVERAGE
WORLD FRICE CF 8 CENT A FORD (US CURRDET), SHOULD PRODUCE
ABOUT ES MILLION DOLLARS (US) IN CREDITS.
3. FIELD COMENT SOURCE SAID THAT EXAMINATION OF THE LACP
CONFSHATIT IS ONE OF THE DEST, CUBA HAS HAD IN YEARS.
FIELO DISSEM STATO ECON CINCSO.

SECRET
SA
2
