104-10131-10016
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Technical Services Division

ATTENTION : Mr. Clayton Kallander
226 Westout Building

FROM : Deputy Director of Security (Investigations
and Operational Support)

SUBJECT : SWENSON, Harold F.
#73086

1. There is attached hereto TFW/Support memorandum dated 5
November 1962 requesting alias documentation for the subject in
his registered alias.

2. Please note that a backstopped driver's license has been
requested for the Subject. The Office of Security vill, therefore,
initiate action to procure a backstopped alias Nov York State
Driver's License. Please issue the remaining requested documen-
tation directly to TTW/Support.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

DDS/IOS
ADDS/IOS
Attachment:
ASST/IOS As Indicated
C/ID
C/OSD cc: TFW/Security
CISED
KUHNKE/efb
6 November 1962
PENDING
Victor R. White

5 November 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR: Technical Services Division
Authentication Branch)

THRU : 08/SD/2, Mr. Kuhnke

SUBJECT : Request for Alias Documentation
Harold F. SWENSON (T)

1. Attached for your information is a completed form D-104
requesting white-documentation for Subject in his registered alias,
Harold Francis SAFLEX

2. Please handle this request on an expeditious basis since
it will be necessary for Mr. SWENSON to make some contacts in the
near future.

3. Refer any inquiries to George A. LADNER, Jr., ext. 6055.

HOWARD J. PRESTON
Chief, TFW/Support

Attachment:
Form D-104

CC: OS/SD/2

DOCUMENT REQUEST FORM

Case No
Requestor:
True Name: Harold F. Swenson
Alias (including middle name): Harold Francis SAFLEY

Address to be used Washington, DC
Heis height: 6'0"
BLOOD TIPE
Weight: 185
Hair: Black
Wears glasses? Married:
Birth date: 28 April 1915 Place:
Bantries where documentation will be used:

Father's name:
POB:
Age:
Occupation:
Residence:
Date Due
Extension:
Occupation: Legend Londoms
New York,
U. S. and passibly Latin Amerio

DATA FOR BIRTH CERTIFICATE, AS OF TIME OF BIRTH
Mother's maiden name
POB:
Age:
Number of children born to parents prior to this birth:
Documentation requested:
Occupation:
Doctor's name

Pocket litter to support legend of an Industrial l
*Can use 251 B. 51st St, New York City as addres
home of Subject's uncle,
Security clearance:
Has New Jersey Driver's license #59586-31566-04155
Axpiration Date - October 1965
2. Former D. C. Perndt 1941947 - now expired

15- Nov tr
Seo bodun called & refustech
abias CIA credent

SWENSON

Swenson is a
said Linenser of of
smooth guy
Amself of

Eng
fricke
Waitsion
w/ R&B
on Thursday
