# 1104-10065-10028 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

Ramon Joseph ALVAREZ Durant

Recruited: March 1955 as member Station unilateral surveillance
team.
OA - 28 Feb 1955.

1 Oct 55: Converted to Contract status w/annual salary $3600.

Late:1956: P/A in charge of surveillance team & also was in
charge of photo surveillance of the Soviet Mission,
including processing the film. LIEMPTY was
crypt for the xxx support team targetted against
the Soviet Embassy. Under LIEMPTY, the 3 basehouses
were encrypted:
LIMITED - basehouse across street from
Soviet Embassy.
LILYRIC - basehouse across the street from
Soviet Embassy.
LICALLA - basehouse xx from which pictures
taken from garden area of Soviet
Embassy.

Note: photo of man alleged to be OSWALD was taken
from the LIMITED basehouse.

12 Dec 58: ALVAREZ married LIEMPTY-19 (Hester ROOS, who assisted
him during the next 10 years as a part-time support
asset in as P/A for the LIEMPTY activity,
surveillance & photo coverage of the Soviet target
(1958-1968.:

In Oct 1962: In order provide maximum compartmentation between
the various basehouses, Oliver G. SCANTLING was inserted
as the cutout to the LIMITED basehouse and its basehouse
keepers (LIEMPTY-6 & 8), replacing ALVAREZ. ALVAREZ
continued as cutout for the LIENTRAP (roving van),
LICALLA and LILYRIC. This gave ALVAREZ more time to
process raw photo take.
This continued from October 1962 until 1 Sept 1964
when ALVAREZ assumed cutout responsibility for
LIMITED basehouse - again.

In 1969: ALVAREZ separated from LIEMPTY-19 and a waxsage messy
divorce suit followed. In Dec 1969, he was put on half pay
& had his ops duties suspended due his full-time
involvement in legal matters re the divorce. On 26 June 7
he & LI-19 signed quit claims & secrecy agreements.
ALVAREZ paid $10,000 as termination bonus
Last Station contact with ALVAREZ was ex*x**x*** May 71
when ALVAREZ received the last of his termination bonuses.
visited
In 1963 when OSWALD allegedly warkasxints the Soviet Embassy, 05941
SCANTLING was tek the P/A for the LIMITED basehouseTand LIEMPTY-6
(Jorge Barcello VILLAGRAn Alvarez ) was the photo tech who took the
pictures.

# 14-00000

SECRET

LIEMPTY-6 was recruited in June 1954 as member of physical
surveillance team. In Dec. 1955, he and his wife occupied the
LIMITED basehouse. He took pictures for 13 years & was
terminated 31 May 1968, signed quit claim & secrecy agreement
which was witnessed by SER ALVAREZ.

ALVAREZ wax presumably was the individual who developed the photos
which LIEMPTY-6 took, as well as the photo tech coverage of the
other 2 basehouses.

SCANTLING's true name is Juan N. FRAIS-RAMIRRZ. (Contract agent)

Soviet Embassy Coverage:
Project LIEMPTY concerned primarily with photo coverage of the
Soviet installation. Active from mid-1955
through 30 June 1972. ar ft It support supported of the
original 3 basehouses which were:
LIMITED had been terminated.
LICALLA (activated in 1957 to provide photo coverage
the rear (garden, parking lot area) of the Sov.
Embassy.
LILYRIC (activated 1956 to provide photo coverage of
the front entrance of the Soviet Emb. Terminat
30 June 1972.
LIMITED (activiated in 1955 to provide photo coverage
of the front entrance of the Sov. Emb. Terminate
31 May 1968.
