104-10171-10138

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

VIA
OFFICIAL DISPATCH

Ozra-105
SECRET
Security Information
CLASSIFICATION

TO
Chief, 43
FROM
Chief of Station, Paris

DATE
5 February 195

SUBJECT OFNEPAL
SPECIFIC
Frits (aka Fred) SNSCI

Reference: State Dept Control Cable 1437, 14 Nov 52, from Bonn

1.  On 11 and 52, the Press Attache' of the Paris Embassy wrote us the following memoranda:

According to French records, Fred sical was born May 31,
1903 1 Berlin. He was trained as a lawyer, left army in
1931, cal appeared in Paris in 1933. In 1939, to calistol
in the Forolga Legica. Since then 1920, ho was demobilised
la Lorocco. Ha fled to Seitserland 101542 d rotereed to
Paris in Lay 1945. Since that time, he has variled for "Die
Zeit" in Zurich, "Libera Stampa," a Socialist daily in Ingeحم
and other papera. In 1949, went to work for "Die Colt,"
the Britich-controlled newspaper in licburg. In February 1951,
le was replaced ca that paper by a Gereen. At the present
tis, ha vorke for "Radio Sarrebruckea," as toll as for "Dar
Band. Ha vas naturalized Fruch in 1947.

Ecocally, to was cleared by SKAFB to eas everything froa
the Pyrences to the Elts. s did to and each a report ca
the Atlatte Foreca. File articles were considered of ty th
Freash, cad even taro translated in the press review tullatin,
"Dosanatatica"

Son tics after the articles had eppeared, hvor, a
Freach cfficial coprossed esteniebat that 3 bed boمع
civen rech Hacervaltaties. fghts had as proof to
offer, this afficiel do the cutest this 3:30
to the Fresh samt of the Costafora. Ka
gave no further darogatory informatica.

2.  Ko searched car files, found no provicus record of Subject, and inforced the Frass Altecha socordingly.

SECRET
Security Inforc
CLASSIFICATION RECORY 2014228-1
-
RIRI CARD REPRODUCTIONS

3.  C 17 Hor 52, the Pross atteris called our attention to
State Dapt. Coatrol cable 1437, frca ca, dated 14 Nov 52, a copy
of which is attached hereto for your ccaveatcise. Basing our re-
quest ca the information contained ta para I above, and on the
attachad cable free Bonn, we subaltted queries concerning Subject
to both in End UNBOUND.

:
4.  23 53 ج, we received the following reply from UNBOUND:

Frits (cks Fred) SSC, tera 31 Ly 1903 Dorlia,
of Gorcea origin, the sca of Wiland Earths TUT,
eccaired French nationality by naturalication ca 1 April
153. 19 October 1933 in Foria 18, ta married hia...
cepatriot ElIEN STRIEL, born 24 August 1505 in Borlin.
They have one child, bom 25 Lay 1937, of Freash nation-
ality.
.....
SUSC Joined the Faralga legica in 1940 and was da-
ccbilized in February 1941. In 1942, fearing lost
ha to intorced in a corp in the templed w, h
cided to go with his wife to Saltzariced. Upon his ar
rival in Switzerland, bo was arrested for clandestina
border-orosaing ad intered in a cap at Kurtiy,
(Falcio). Later, ha vas transferred to a lower carp at
Sierra. During his stay in Saitserland, ba allegedly
several articles under the pecudaya "Bacal" in
the Srics socialist press, notedly in the paper "Libora-
Sta

La a 1935, he retained to Freges and cateled at
Entrega (Sota), vhara & still waldes at 211 Arezzo
Fierro Broscolotto. Since 1515, a bad a legal offios
etora d'Heatovilla, Faria Wa, hare, according to a
creally rolidlo exarco, é is reported to hava hald
one with Konstanti ElF607 of the Soviet Corciel
Liestea (ele - Eco Ltd 11555) dvity WOCHEN of the
Sories Information Bareca. The activity of this legal
office is, in fact, alwat negligible,

Sines 1945, he also has oporated za office for tha
cattlesnt of disputed claisy for the intermatical
Reserve and Rolier Cocaitter (I.F.R.C.), 35 Brd.
Cepartnes, Perio. Ka equally 10 aistrator of the
firaveak and Sluit" of Atsarp, Salzina.
SEORE?
Security Information

ANCON Covotos the creator part of his activity, however,
to journalica. Es is a correspondint of vertous French sad
forola naucpapers, notably the Suica paper "Dor Dand." E
is accredited officially to the French Klatstry of Information.
ka bas coteired nazarcus vicas for foreign countries in order
to fulfill his professional obligations.

ka has novor attracted attentica free the political point
point of vica, but to cuspect his of being identical with an
indivichal of the esss naze who belonged to the Suiss "Rota
Eapollo notwork.

SILSON 13 in contact with a can named EURCHFARET (sic
cco para 5 tales), now a correspondzat of "Dor Eurd" in
Faric, and who alco 10 cuspected of baing identical with an!
ox-agent of the "Rota Kepollo."
:
Es are cantiming our investigation of Frits Shsom.

5.  With regard to the BURCHIARD?cticmad above by UITOUND, since have consulted with the Press Attechs, who has tosa able to iden tify him as follows:
    
bals.i
Head LURCETARDT, bora 9 Septcator 1906 in Lehr, Germany,
proxatly residing at 105 Bvd. Voltaire, Pario llo, economic
correspcadeat for "Dor Band," eccredited as a journalist to
the Presidence da Concall ca 10 February 1945, clco works
for the Voreinigten Wirtschafta Dicact of Frankfurt, in
baca se corious journalist, but otherwise as a doubtful
individual.

6.  04 Feb 53, wo received the following loss completo reply from UWIC:
    
Frits (cla Fred) SICO, formerly a Corcan losyor, toc'k refuge in France in 1933. Es les opened a legal office in
Fario cad alco occupies Hemolf with formalice. Catil now,
no unfavorable informatica has been cotairied concerning hiu.

7.  Es cre making all of the shove information available to both the Darcy Fross Attacks cad to SF. We would appreciato receiving all possible further Carczatory informatica concerning SECCI, blo various coatcats, and his estivities. We would be interested to receive, in particuler, any informatica to confirma UNID's carpicion that sinsal, and/or BURCKHARDT, used to belong to the "liots Kapallo network.

Distributions
ch: 3 Brus: 1
Freaks 1 Earn: 1
Богl: 1 Regler 5
Lloyd D. Lagor

201-2038-1
.
D 2015
PEATURE CARD REPRODUCTIONS

iac int taif
www
friendly to the te
shut ollitary disclosures in Do treating titis Niont Neuws La
Parin
Butir Vertal
itten, wy frodavon, Pa
11 :
Cortenondent for hare hot, wa
pallister Paul Haupt.
to Stasoleva
boos
activities in tromma
ay forma

SSCURITY LAP
7FEB

AIB
CONFIDENTIAL

OVICE
451
EF2-A-1704
Chief, D
AT7.1 Chief, 52/2
いい
أم أمان aaton, Moto Jeariro
UNIF
(geratinal/BTAMALIA
Swear 1
છછછRRRA FRE ROORRRRRR
Internation of Easton Caicreate from in presil

Trozwollted cut in tripilمم
curso preparbi
by Wiliww.ring merrogatie of wa

colgruite tre tai. Bresil

مجمع اسهاما is triplicate
Diatributi
Headquartero wal
3
2
Bão Paulo, watt n
?
Pilos, w/att.
)
:
Merle n. kaf toer
b-1704
LOOD REPRODUCTIONS

FORTIS FIL צימ
SUBJECT: Passing of ha reports to Brasilian fathorities.
KEP-1-519
27.0ctator 1954

1. On 18 October, Marcos EAST03, ACUATI's colleague in the Draatiten Fodoral Political Foliga, aforaad his that of 15 October be had rebaittal to the Chief of Police alation of the reports had received from ATHY.
(East had bean given by AATHY starilised verstone of R-2 to 12-15, inclusive, and 13-17 to 12-29, inclusive, along wa biographical information of the caurces of those reports. R2-15-30 mare not passed to BASTOS because they had been obtained from ALLOPATHY.)

2. On 27 October ELSTC3 informed that the translation of the reporti had a forwarded by the Chief of Folice to Colonel LERALDO, the pressat hand of the Fedoral Alitical Folica in lo da notte, che, in turn, bod formartal it w Jasi 100 of the Folitical Division of the Folitical Police, for his reescalations. Elsic stata that to believel PIOGRAFIALI wuld recobal that the reports be forwardal to the Feroin Offics cai tha Far Vinistry. EASA also intends to give a copy of the translations to Ribeiro de ANARS, head of the Servicio da Vilancia of the Departeant of Political and Social Ordor (D.O.P.S.), São Paulo, tas iniicated an interest in recalving it.

3. As an introduction to the translation of the reports, LiSTOS Cascribed briefly Brazil's Statoloss rouges inmigration probics and the voluntary velfere organizations which assist the inaigrants in gaining entry to, and settling in, Erasil. The translation of this introductien is as follows

The currant imigration of hito Russians tato Brasil began in 1913. It has dialniched since June 1954 in the face of the dectaton teken ty t Rational Institute of Colonization ent Imigration (Instituto Eacional de Licração Colonis) (H.1.I.C.) on 16 Jun 1954. On that dats, thre Directorata of the H.I.I.C. decided to request that the Kinistry of Foreign Rolations take the necessary atops to stop the issuance of vicas for stateless perons for a period of sixty days.

con 30 Juns, Vicento WD, thon Foreign Kinister, cant a circilar to all me consulates ordering a stoppage in the issuance of vices until a final decision could be reached.

Ca 22 September, the Foreign Office bad to the consulates new instructions, according to which, corarally sporting, stateless tigreats are pareittel entry to Erasil only if they have in Erasil relatives in the direct line of descent shoss ocomade situation is such that they can guarantes the cabstatoncs of the icalgrants.
:

lievertheless, it cay to wted the: there are various stateless sem in Hong Kong, with their respective passporta in orier, miting accommodati on one of the five chips of the tong Long-Dienos Aire 11منا الج BOLAGSVAT LSSSVANP JS, TRELLER,
(1)
The difficulties which the international organisations counter in obtaining complète and roltaldo Laforation on the imigrants are ce to a large extent to the fact that those imigrants lucy's resita in areas far removed from tin locales of the organizations offices. Ons wat alas raise the fact that included coong the stateless imigrante is a large or of persona useful to brazil, auch & the following types of writoras achenics, engineers, electricians, cheatsts, etc.

There are twelve international organisations who are responsible for preparing the imigrants for this Jourray or batter, the cilt of those stataless rofugees from China sad various European countries. They cros
1. A.J.D.C. - American Joint Distribution Committos, with offices in Rio ant São Paulo.
2. Ε.Ο.Ι. - Entr'Ailo Ouvriore Internationale (International Workera
3. Η.Ι.Α.S.

Lutual Aid)
4. 1.C.M.C.
Hebrow imigrant Aid Socioty, with offices in Rio and São Paulo.

International Catholic Higration Cission, with offices
in Rio end São Paulo.

5. 1.5.3. International Social Service, with offices in His and São Paulo.
6. I.R.C. International Homsuo Committee. has no representatives in Erasil.
7. L.W.F. Lutheran Korld Federation, with offices in Rio and São Paulo.
8. W.C.M.C. National Catholic Wolfaro Conference, with offices in Rio
anl São Paulo.
9. S.A.E. Suios Ald to Europa. Has to representation in Erasil.
10. T.F. Tolstoi Foundation, with offices in Rio ant São Paulo.
11. U.U.A.R.C. Unitel Virenian Azerican Koliof wittes.
:
12. W.C.C.Worli Council of Churches, with offices in Rio cad São Paulo.
م
"Two of those organizations handle the largest number of arrivals. Ono 13 the W.C.C. shows office in Rio is located at Praia do Fl, 180, ept. 602; 113 office in São Paulo is at a D. Veridiana, 30. (20 Paulo office is under the direction of Wiss Rachel da CARVALLO. CARVALLO. (2) Tha othor arganisation is to N.C.M.C., whose office in illo is at Avonida Churchill 60; its office in São Paulo is in the Church of Peace (Igreja on kia licorio. The São Paulo office ia under the direction of Fatior Lario.(3)

Since 25 April 1954, cary statolcas persons sio have baca unable to obtain a visa for Erazil, Canada or Australia have boon repatriated to tho U.S.S.. As a result of this repatriation, it is possible, though rot probable, that sors elements may be sent fiva China to Brasil to engage in cubversiva activities hare, while ambers of their families, who have been repatriated to Russia, are held as hostages there."
-2-
AE CARD MEPRODUCTIONS

AVERAME Comments
1. RIOD-346 reported on 2 October 1954 that about 6 such statele rofees with entry visas for Bresil issued prior to 30 Mins 1951 1 KoUs KoUs waiting for transportation to Brasil.

SUIKO FIVE SUDACI
2. The head of the W.C.C. office in Rio is André MOURATIEFF, who is concurrently Dologate of W.C.C. for all Latin America and, in this capacity, is Kiss CARVALHC's superior.

3. The head of the N.C.W.C. in Rio is Walter DWINICA, who is the overall hest of N.C.W.C. activities in Brasil, in which capacity he is Father Harlo's superior. DUSHNYCK's chief assistant in Rio lo Hies Adelaida da Costa ACEVEDO

FOM
2
وداو
2310
3
de
10 Frana
I w.
20
"
سمنان
VL
DISSECHANEL 5.6
ជាព
2
20
ADRATUL SUBMITTED

Proa
Frenen Part......
ол
Reporter unter Peterson
Distribution
By copy to
711081 Y
UNECESSARY
FCP-OOT
:
Sإ CTY TORLATION
HOL, G7FICIA PILY
12. January 1952
Heport. 15722icchi File No.
Bourse SERIRE UNNECESSARY
Hource. Operational bate, and Comments:
Assured..
David C. Taltot
Pretty to
Hefereness.

Subjects Joseph LEGRAND Reassigned

Comments For tracce on the individuala named in the attached ass the followingi
LECTAND-PM-7016 (81), and othere
CARY, Elle-770-18
ROCSI, Baile - 170-10, 50-518
DELUCOSE, Loon-170-11) 170-1025 50-515
(cm) - -
B.
LEDIKE, Charles - PA-7968 and others

Classification/cs-21 07ICIRAS CRI
10CC77
14.7-1 159

Budjocs: Joseph LA WUND

SEACRET
CONT DL/tis, OFFICIALS ONLY

Place Arquired France, Paris
Evaluation: وت
ADAM STY INFORMATION
Feport No: KP 5929.
Date of information: Current
Date Acquired: 8 January 1952
Date of Report: 12 January 1952
Cource: Through a fairly reliable source fra an informant with NP contacta

1. Jose, whed in the "Pronator affair" end as a result
סx3101 ותa trha Central Coalttes of the FC in the Spring of 1951, was recently led the josition as Adalnstrativa Gecretary of the Restoral Kinara Federatica (COT) in the Kard and Radicalatoracions. Auguste was inotammental in scouring this reezeigment for Rid, according to cource.

2. )Laca) 10 (alle) who wore in charge for ניינסן של of the reorganisation of the Regional Federatior have been placed rld's orders and have been charged with Pinaufficient action".

3. Das been given "full pacare" to visit all aytuificates a to autoleranta judged wrocessary, roducing the diroating cronica of the various cyndicatos, Coures stated hat is colivities era partially ulotated by finansiel necasalty and tint staffs will be reduced for econcato reasono.

(8), Cacrotery of the incre symulicato of Domain (Ford), כל baca charged with reorganicting the Valancicanos costor, in particular the caus regica, mich nga fallen into lothar es a result of the inertio of the tratto (120)。 According to souros, Cl, foxer Cecray Daneral of the cinera Cor حاده for castics been in itra fcr El Co a result of lack of disciplina and incercatenca in encata cffairs. Kosover, הסכנת nted to take כהכנת כלtility fer dictooing a first aut porformed by LORD in hio

4. Feccably catered that to els has been given fזמכן נות pap drore symelicates and the all (Charles) 111 next elections for siness Colegatos.

Masflectica SECRET/CONTEC30.8. C/FICIALS ONLY
29-7-1-157.
P -A-
FEATURE CARD REPRODUCTIONS

OFFICIAL DISPATCH 3P

CLASSIFICATION
Cider of Station, Paris

Cater, WE

SUBJECT
AL
SPECIFIC
Tuicric SECU

DISPATCH NO
(2010)
i.
Petar 1:3

1.  The following liferation or Froderic SES, baitovel to bo Wentical viti. your cut jeet, tua toom translates a ram refert in German resolved from "unll-placed cource in the lobt Germum Government", und transmitted to horiquartory in 102, Karna. 15
    
    "
    SEGON, Froder)
    Dorm 31110 in Herita
    Androsas Montrescobalt Avenue ireplac
    Professions Journalist, crtatly correspondent of the
    Sutou owupapor or Lund", tio Corman daily
    "Dio kalt", cui cf "Radio Stuttgart".
    A politially soulthil pardon i recurved an entrarco
    visa ier Heat Varnary Valid for six months on Af Jamer
    152. weaving to information from to trociniostry
    of Interior the S,), SHOCK vas verking for the Comanist
    paper "Die Zurt" (Hunsentarter) lofare the war aنى بعring
    the vi for the Swiss Casamist touspapers "Dio tat", "Valk
    wal "Arboltorzeitig. Alorally not a coramiot!
    Altay rate so stated to present Press Attano of the Consul
    nerdito Gran Commulate General, Free
    RADIO, when 3000
    ISO Stol a twisten

    ".
    ppilai tar av
    mitation on Lot of
    (Ralio),
    Che nowsposer, "Dio Welt", "Stuttgart
    Kutionaliti Farmari Guruظال )Joy) out 154 το
    Waie viere inquire town cop deccating to
    is own statement, vnded by the Lost Germ bross
    Office in Born to Apply gain for German citizenship ba,
    
RELEASING OFFICER
Frases White hinne
Paul Binisall
Foz.....
1049 صور
new
СОРОДИНА OFFICER
CLASSIFICATION
AUTHENTICATING OFFICE
Learتمع
C. Cuietan
788:
RO REPRODUCTIONS

-2-
fterall, vaivating for Garden newspapers, leav,
الحملات من stating that a pea
علت با من ماء نامه با ما Chlmes
of opinion with Polarمحطة ال is chief.
Not Chimeller of Lost Carツ、たい
caly callest of the Fallmatay Call, isp
ما متعاد atavien er diring his was conference.
haloner farciven da do this.

2. دان دا at the correl reference to dete
صحة 25312725 has been clely exccciated with Gul, prely, others of the bantarastai da to fot that fetched to C cap totalis et polling F is entical with demmira Al, repatal にフランス tacter of Ecstatia KYANTSEV, Vica col it to Sevict healach in contest Coleto da with RYAZAR e la ubpostal lil agent, and if is allegal.

3. The la CIRCUT o in Perda ca cocmindo correspalet for "der Dual", reably is Llantical with the Roma ADT mentioned in the "Final EQUIL Ropert (l, Pat III, Vol. 1, p. alch statons

دمنه Deals, 6 Farfcmarco
Locality: Green, barn September 106 in Lei
Occupations Jarcalfat. L-lys in Fala a resentative
Lepicnagar
ar "uropa Ireo tranfurt-tal of
"Fresco Valegraphique Salesa" of Dacia.
Unsa, Lut content of FOOTE (1) hring var.

4.55hb to Certify the (2) LUCCI of the Soriot Information المتا al tartotta Dahal בת 15 علامت International Recaro (2) letter Colites faceretes 10 وحدة d Folief Committers cffices at Per City, ale des Feb matiahf Istamatical Relief Colttes cal the Day Balief Canitte. It is facially to troupes fב خالد it a cati-fects: Galatica sing ranges without regard to nationalities, the calcally a Caciat amatica, svarel Camlata have been filial with it (co اردستان al, therefero, castership in the I.R.R.C. to viewed with

-3-

5. bo chall be post Interestal 11 any further inforaction on SDCa and his associatca you devolop, csi in any infcreation or Alex you cay to able to obtain through upropriate cources. A copy of 12000, which hai cot come to our attention proviously, is attachel. Caly the reference to SINSOR: has been translated as o vero unable to have the entire document translate co proup: transmittel to you.

Attechzout - Go
CC Prantur
CC Berlia
CCL
CC Pruncelts
Paul Bridsale
Faul Firuzall
by Ari Erérter
Kom Egath
:
31-24225-6
&

AIB
CONFIDENTIAL
انگر
1年
OVICE
451
EF2-A-1704
Chief, D
AT7.1 Chief, 52/2
いい
أم أمان aaton, Moto Jeariro
UNIF
(geratinal/BTAMALIA
Swear 1
છછછRRRA FRE ROORRRRRR
Internation of Easton Caicreate from in presil

Trozwollted cut in tripilمم
curso preparbi
by Wiliww.ring merrogatie of wa

colgruite tre tai. Bresil

مجمع اسهاما is triplicate
Diatributi
Headquartero wal
3
2
Bão Paulo, watt n
?
Pilos, w/att.
)
:
Merle n. kaf toer
b-1704
LOOD REPRODUCTIONS

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET/1231 20515.1231.
Ich are hold care and wird beton
The Booting and Bad BCT bened the overted 20080
FROM
PILAN
DATE
TO
BOUV
N
DOCUMENT NUMRIS
DOCUMENT NUMRIS
سس CKEN DATE
"ΟΓΡΑ-26615.
8 1957
COMMENTS
NOTE no ofteste removed treca
D
3
"
12
ن
0
وا
ייייייייי
14
0
RIFI
19
what Arne ke of the copy and/or eac
ment bermi00:00
this file of the the Cord File Bection for por
rotated t
SECRET
NCE
GS
FILE NUNDER
300 124
ENCLOSURE
3/17 45
DATE PROCESSED
14 JAN 1957
مريت
SH
DREP

CFFICIAL DISPATCH
VIA
APR
CERIC
TO
Chief, 10

LIOPATCH NO. OFTA 26615
SECRET
CLASSIFICATION
DATE:
JAN 8 1937
PROM
Chief of Station, Paris LCPIPIT INFOI Chief, 13

SUBJECT GENERAL
SPECIFIC
Oporational
DT JOUNCE

Forwarded horowith is a Foreign Service Daspatch dealing with the
IMC's program for Hungarian refugees. Your attention is called to the
lest sentence of the attachant to it.

Enclosures h/u
J
CratHook
JAN C. VAN HOCK
1- Faroia Service Despatch (w/att.)
7 Junuary 1957

1
Distributicas
√3-10, cel.
1-13, 1/0 sol. Lo a cy
2-lipit, w/o enol.
1- CZFA

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION

S.R
ما
FOREIGN SERVICE DESPATCH
864.47/11-2
Lovecher
P.LICA 10 Caf
LEM. SLT-8CM-5, SCA-2, Scs-2,050
12/7" SIA 10. fing. /-317-
International fعت مستla Progres for Ritarien herigo
31

Denga a rescat labor caroration Desador prestado a
General Donor and other efficace of th Latomattoral Rescue CoC)
thất Ma creantiation aight Investicates advicality of decting
ita fata ai offerte ca that the garden
Genaral Deroven of other of the art of ltd bare estel feveretty
thita proposal. A caro of conversation citachod as Encicure 1 to tila cerated
indicatos Ue ganeral lines of action taing followed by is organisation,

Croeral Donovas also discussel with Er. R. R. Erean, OFC, Frankfurt, the
master of distratte sport for te th and a pom
was counseled to etait estirates of the coote prior to contract negotiation.

For ho Anbassadors
Juhan
Alfred Puhen
Pirad Secretary of Enbaciy
Docs Momarantha
DCCY
200-124-2/17-95
MEPRODUCTIONS

Tos Ti
Dr. P. Livico

Eurecher 35
be aprto the da of the storil o Coritise
to do as fellow

1.  Cara intants der cict (Chaity theo)
for caser Ligat تت داناrd, 585 ano 5 y 10 شتقاتr day for all of the clutante in notis ? Co hav cutta quay for alla offered ty .. and charm for suo call as well as affered by the PreCovena dy to cradicale. En the c ary chaint a obrani a full ال اله f routrot. alership, 1.C's cotto & la will canalet crimarily of corsaling assistance امله

{2. A total for 100 site is lelut established and will be cparatod nec? Pario be the French trench of IC.

3.  1.  10 coνορίες αуслaca of a ciutat hostel in Wema aimial capacity 300 olixlents.

4.  1.  6 10 covering the costs of a bastal for a reprted 150 culcata. en wolfgangeco,

5.  1. כבל purchased a folliard starto operating as of today near things fres the heater to the callestion station 6 klimbs

6.  1.  111-500cc .. 23 already tan covered, Lege Kats or fatallertalet pefer to all the princefer colle ic condoan of Molar to car Cha cost c? 1000 bals, itfc842 rla totalif par that the Ministry has not felladolid (cithay I have personally crestal canin cftichals that thay chould not let this city dres). Lill and ready to cover its cardt.

OFPA-22615
Doop
Pr
2
FIGW
C
Foll stated that lead alary to ku York your cougeation Wat the way cover ravinton clothin: ard lase Loose in in juer, he anticlinics the cat notes 611 probably cover the's an casco Ith reard to sucli nada da does not capcat the entire burden, di state, however, tint the Conditos via twinging in two or three core resp. et omoration in Vicman. In Franca they are looidn tnto the re turope University in 3tmobor- but would piefis not to hoss och 11th bocause of its commant connefono.

Hivirunck
200-1204-210
لم
:
APESTURE CARD REPRODESTO

