14-00000
104-10185-10024
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET
(When Filled In
NAME CHECK, DOCUMENT SERVICE, AND PARTIAL CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

RID CONTROL NO. (Filled in by RID)	DATE PS
20

FROM: (Requester name) 
7 McHale 03	BRANCH
A
ROOM
0	EXTERIOR
3661

TO	ROOM	DATE	INITIALS
CHECKING INSTRUCTIONS
RID/INDEX
ESC
REQUESTER	4/5:4/70-26

RID/FILES	Ple call
REQUESTER	Wher Alaly

RID/DRS	g &-attached

RID/201

RID/ANALYSIS

RID/MIS

RID/INDEX

SURNAME	SLBJECT TO BE CHECKED
e
BESTA	Lamberto	GIVEN MAMES
SPELLING VARIATIONS

AKA, ALIASES	OTHER IDENTIFYING DATA (Occupation, sex, CP membership,
1. S. altaliatione, etc.)
Owns Export-Import firm LABE (or LABEX)
in Milan

DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH
CITIZENSHIP
Itelich	May 1918
23 Via Teodosto, Milen, Itely	RESIDENCE
RID/INDEX TO REQUESTER	COMMENTS
NO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION
CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED	RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
BE SURE ALL SUBJECT INFORMATION IS CORRECT
1 Type or print all entries.
② On receipt of index card reproductions: draw a green diagonal line across items you don't want RID to obtain for you.
CHECK CHECKER Kit C C C C C C C C C C green) the Copyflo listing to reflect: (a) Cards to be destroyed (green D).
Examples: referenced document has been destroyed; less informative than a retained
card leading to the same information; referenced information not significant. (b)
Corrections and additions, including oo when card reflects all facts in document.
(c) OK all cards that are correct as typed.

Could this trace be consolidated into an existing or new 201 file? yes no. (If
yes, complete the following no other form required.)

201 PARTIAL CONSOLIDATION
201	(201 number will be supplied by RID. 11 . 201 number has been obtained by
desk, nore at in this space.)
OTHER INTERESTED DESKS OR STATIONS

CRYPTONYM
ASSIGNED	FILE TO
BE KEPT	RESTRICTION (!! any)
ACCESS RESTRICTED
YES
NO	RIO
DESK	
NO
YES
ALWAYS RETURN THIS FORM WITH COPYFLO OF CARD REPRODUCTIONS. IF YOU HAVE REQUESTED
A 201 PARTIAL CONSOLIDATION, ALSO RETURN PERTENENT DOCUMENTS.
UBR

14-00000
BESTA, FNU
DOB ?.
CIT?
ALLEGED ITALIAN AGENT IN MILAN
041-000-004
OIR -13764
TS 107273
22 Jul 55
SER. 7889

Cant locate
in RT

EFSTA, Lamberto
43-5-1-4334
CI4-374
4 Apr 55
Att.
Ordenil
fulgony
to lockt
ively in Rt

BESTA, Lamberto
NTA 136
(2525)
24 Mar 54
. חונה

14-00000
1
BESTA. Lamerto
(MAA)

14-00000
Files are attached with pertinent items clipped....

Lamberto BESTA

Apr11 1955 : Resident of Milan et Via Teodosio 23, collaborated foo
DEMIGOD
brief period with
kemijud
regarding clandestine
traffic in strategic materials. Lives by trafficking in cigarettes and
other things not excluding done. Also meintains contact with
29
head of French intelligence in Italy in political field. Person of
doubtful honesty, braggart and capable of carrying out any kindof
activity for money.
(Source Demjod)

15-22
March 1954: Itel service (Min of Int) offered to turn over to Milan station
full control of PIC operation in which BESTA was involved. Has werned
he has been
"heads off" because of BESTA's extremely bad reputation
implicated in all sorts of contraband traffic as well as reputation
of completely nomimm unanchored intelligence operator.

Νον 1953:.
11
He was an attempted double agent operation b. by Ital service into
Yugo I.S.
:
!
Hous NCT ục
jit
read State Compulchre
Refered to in teen dat check

4IBR
کہ
