14-00000
104-10167-10297
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

TO Chief,
INFO Cider of Station, Habana
116-26

FROM COS, San Salvai
San Salvation
SUBJECT Operational
Delivery of Material to 5mfects 2 A7A-2047

ACTION REQUIRED
PEPERENCES)
See Para 1
HAVA-2027 (RYBAT)

It is requested that the following items sent under
separate cover be ielivered to subjects of reference.

1. Tribuna Libre datel 13 May 1959
2. Opinion estudiantil datei 18 May 1959
3. Notebook containing notes on communists and communist
 activities extracted from local publications.
4. March issue of Latinamerica
5. Copies of La Joierria iatei 23 May 1959
6. Copy of Las Historias de Espionaje nas asombrosos
 del munia by Kurt Singer
7. Paraicias del Communismo by Jose H. Leiis
8. Cartas de un Care Commista or Agustin 3. Elizalde
9. Two copies of the study mentioned in "S5A-3039
10. Book entitled KRUSCHEV by David Rosenberg and Mauricio
 Carlavilla ani newspaper clippings.

Enclosure:
1-10 As listed above USC
16 June 1959
Distribution:
3- Headquarters w/encl
1- Habana w/o enci
3 - Files w/o encl
AK: The

Arthur K. GALANT

201-259170
PAGE NO.
1.
3/90

SECRET
WHEN FILLED IN)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET
NOTE: in the absence of comments ir indication of action
tamen, this cover shee mill be destroyed when the
document is filed.

FROM:
RIJAN
COMMENTS

TO ROOM DATE OFFICERS
NO. RECEIVED FORWARDED INITIALS
1.
3
1958
Pr
CH/N/IPS

SALV/R

Cuba

WH/3/Maute, harpe
627
RECORD COPYR
Wil/3/e

Mothreats to Pedro Dinz Landda
Jand Candies Diaz Rojas

amwarile
037au
holding these
Thing?
10,1 C.
FOR YOUR COOZITION
834) 5.0W, 27th Ferrarge
Mismi 55 Flenika
renroddecat
mw.iv-10 dire
The sui
AMWARBLE
gite
Cross reference
To 2011185,869

RECLASSIFIED
RI/AN

RI/LIS
PRI/Files

RID/FI
100
FILE NUMBER 201-259120 -
--63-120-1
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use On
Do Not Reproduce

ENCLOSURE ABSTRACT
INDEX
DATE MICROFILMED DOCUMENT DATE DOCUMENT NUMBER
19

USE PREVIOUS
SECRET
