14-00000
104-10170-10059
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO:
FROM: CANTO DOMINGO
ACTION:
INFO:
SECRET 13220
DIR WAVE INFO PACY LANT CITE SOOM 3355 (SROCK ACTING)
INTEL: 02
SUPERATAEM-1. LEMGEM-1 HAD SAID ON JULY
THAT FOLCH AND LUNE WERE A.DING CUSAN REBELS.
INDER FOLCH, LUNA. FILED 132248
REPORT CLASS SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM HOC S
DOM CAN REPUBLIC/CJ
SUB SUPPORT OF THE DOMIN CAN AIR FORCE AND NAVY FOR CANE CEERATIONS
IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
DO: EARLY AUGUST 1964
PADA: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, SANTO DOMINGO (1) AUGUST (4)
APPR:
IN COMMENT:

RELEASING INC:
CATE:
BASED ON:
LIAISON:
SECRE?
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

14-00000
TO:
FROM:
ACTION:
INFO:
PAGE 2

SOURCE DOMINICAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL 24
(F) WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS IN MILITARY CIRCLES.

IV COMMENT:

RELE ASING INC:
DATE DISTRIBUTED:
BASED ON:
LIAISON:
TOCS:
PRECEDENCE:
Erst
SECRET
REPRODUCE BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PP

14-00000
SECRET
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
Intelligence Information Cable
COUNTRY: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC/CUBA
DATE OF
INFO.:
TOCS:
SUBJECT: DOMINICAN CACHING OPERATIONS
DATE ACQ.: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, SANTO DOMINGO (1) AUG (4) 1964

SOURCE: 24
AND
APPRAISAL: DOMINICAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL (F) WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS IN MILITARY
CIRCLES.
AFFRAISAL: F
DISTRIBUTION: 5

1. THE DOMINICAN AIR FORCE AND THE DOMINICAN
NAVY ARE ALLOWING CRAFT MANNED BY CUBAN EXILES TO
CACHE ARMS AND OTHER SUPPLIES ON THE DOMINICAN COAST
AT LAS PENA. AND PUNTA LUNA, SOUTH OF MONTE CRI.
THE BOATS ARRIVE AND DEPART QUICKLY, WITH PERMISSION
FROM THE DOMINICAN NAVY, TO CACHE THEIR CARGO.
ARMS AND OTHER SUPPLIES ARE NOT OF DOMINICAN ORIGIN.
THE CUBAN EXILES DO NOT REMAIN ASHORE, BUT LEAVE AFTER
THE CRAFT THAT BROUGHT THEM.
2. AIR FORCE COL. JUAP. IN. FOLCH PERELO. HAS CHARGE

SECRET

ARMY ACS NAVY AIR SEC DEF NSA NIK AID USIA CA CHI CRE

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FORIES DISSEM
TOCS
OF THE AIR FORCE BASE IN SANTIAGO, IN CHARGE OF THIS
OPERATION. (SOURCE COMMENT. IN EARLY JULY, FOLCH AND
GEN. ATILA LUNA WERE REPORTEDLY AIDING CUBAN EXILES).
THE DOMINICAN ARMY IS NOT DIRECTLY INVOLVED IN THE CUBAN
EXILE OPERATIONS.
3. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAV AIR CINCSO CONGLANT.

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
CONTINUATION OF DCS INFORMATION REPORT
