:
1104-10069-10132
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
UNCLASSIFIED
CONFIDENTIAL
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET 21 July 63
RI/ANALYSIS
 OFFICER'S INITIALS DATE
NO.
FUSA-3202
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from, to whom. Draw line to comment of each officer.
PAYELRAD, EDOUARD
Date 10 July 63
FR
Veles
EF6/4/Sim
FR/4/C84
OCT 27 1650
FOR OUR OF RI ONLY" Do not write below this line
RI/AN
11/5
12.
13.
14
RITY
RI/FI-1409 L
EDITIONS
OP-1410-86
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
FOR ACTION OR INFO ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED
DATE
1 JUL 1963
07483
REPRODUCTION IS BEST OBTAINABLE
FROM APERTURE CARD SUBMITTED
14-00000

VIA ALF
From: Chief of Station, Viet Nam
Info: Chief, FE
General: Operational/FU Only
July 63
Subject: Specific Information concerning Lam A
ACTION REQUIRED None
In answer to request of Gregory G. SAMMAS, the following is a composite
of information from P. ALE (TOFU) (IFN 1) and VERALL N. ANDREEV
(IFN 2) concerning Lam A.

1. Description of subject: Between 30 and 40 years old, about 6 feet tall,
rather bald, well spoken, very strong and vigorous, Mao shirt taste, Jewish.
Speaks English and French. He is married and has one 9 or 10-year old daughter.
He has a sister in Nam Khart who is a materialized American citizen. May
always speak French; some English; has an impressive library; reads continuously
and paints very well.

2. Early during the war he was deported as a Jew to a German concentration
camp (tattooed prisoner's identification number on right forearm--0976), there
he spent several horrible years and survived only by luck. Since 1949 he has
spent part of his time in Laos and was apparently in intelligence or related
activities most of the time. (Former reports indicate that former map is located
1930-1932 connected in Laos by an officer from SDECE to neutralized operations and
was shortly afterwards declared persona non grata by the French).

3. Subject took part as a civilian in the Atlantic Operation, AO. According
to one report, was in this work as a means of money to make propaganda, buy off the
opposition, etc. (Lassa D) and MARKEN (LAM) collaborated in Lam A's
accomplishment in Central Viet Nam among the few notable achievements in that
area, particularly in respect to his contribution to the Vietnamese pacification
program which he coordinated throughout the course of Operation Atlantic.

4. Subject is an old friend of Col. Jean Gardeneral, former chief of UNIS
at Da Lat (Sam-1999). In one National Security Division, during
which time he proposed to VILLIEM joint operations--postal resources and experience
(similar to Banoi proposal, above) but VILLIEM refused, considered proposal pre-
varication resource.

5. March-April 1954, subject approached Station and USOM/ID for military
support for program to support smallness of a people's militia (month militia)
in the Hua Hong area. Information and correspondence on this proposal will be
sent upon request.
SECRET
REPRODUCTION IS BEST OBTAINABLE
FROM APERTURE CARD SUBMITTED
GALLIWENS CAUTIOUS

14-00000

SECRET

6. In February-March 1954, subject was sent by the French on a special
mission to Poland and East Germany to attend a conference.

7. Subject claims that while working for USIS he supervised an operation
from Saigon, the latter stated that he be removed from Saigon. Subject claimed that
the USIS wanted to get rid of him for "political" reasons--approximately 15 December
1954.

8. At present subject is (sometimes addicted to French Film productions)
at Kamp 7 or of 31 December 1954. He frequently travels to Saigon, and can
have lost 17 days.

Headquarters
Vienne, US
20 June 1955

Distribution:
Orig & la Addressee
1: Chief, FE
4: Station Files
SECRET
201-136765
REPRODUCTION IS BEST OBTAINABLE
FROM APERTURE CARD SUBMITTED

14-00000

SECRET

201-136765
REPRODUCTION IS BEST OBTAINABLE
FROM APERTURE CARD SUBMITTED
