OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
5010-104
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

TO : Chief, Contact Division
ATTN: Support Branch (Crowley)
FROM : Chief, Minneapolis Office
SUBJECT: Cuban Refugee Group
DATE: 31 August 1962

1. Enclosed are three names provided by George Hauer
of Cleveland, Ohio. These apparently are the leaders of the
Cuban group which you and I have discussed in some detail.
For the record, Hauer got in touch with me because we had
some rather extensive debriefing sessions in 1959, and
apparently he prefers to continue that relationship for the
present. Headquarters' records will show, however, that
he was interviewed by Gene Rittenburg in September 1960.

2. The Cubans listed on the enclosure are the leaders
of a small group which is shuttling back and forth to Cuba
for the purpose of establishing reception groups, taking in
medical supplies, ammunition and weapons, and to bring out
other Cubans who wish to leave the country. As you know
from our discussions, they are seeking help in the form of
supplies, etc. (Hauer understands that no help will be given
without some measure of control by our Agency, and he
agreed to provide the names for Agency consideration. The
third man on the list is of urgent consideration. Hauer
specifically requested that we treat any on-the-street
investigation with great care.

3. Please expedite any checking you might do and give
me your expression of interest as soon as possible. Hauer
is not an exceptionally patient man, and I certainly expect
to receive an inquiry from him in the near future. I believe
he is genuinely motivated and quite capable, and in his
present position of recruiting executive personnel for
Ernst & Ernst he could be quite useful to the Agency.

VERNON R. SANDO

Enclosure

SECRET SENSITIVE

1. Ernesto Rodrigues y Moreno
Cities Service Station
Marathon Shores
Florida
Age 35, married, three children, owner of gas station

2. Laureano Batista
157-SE 12th Street
Miami, Florida
gustin Batista
Son of prominent and reputable Havana banker, Augustin

3 Vic
Victor Paneque
Age 42. Former July 20th Commander
Presently in Cuba.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
