104-10164-10088	2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

9 May 1963

CONTACT REPORT

WUBRINY - General

02

1.  WURINY/1 called on the sterile line from Washington
at 1430 hours to discuss the subject covered below.

2.  Tire Recap: UBRINY/1 said that he had just heard
from the Mohawk people who will be in New York the week of
20 May and has stated that they are now prepared to go ahead
investing some $30,000 of their own money in a tire recap
plant in Greece. UBRINY/1 will give us more details as he
has them and feels that Lodi will also come in with some money
and that WUSALINE can also, if this is desired or needed.

3.  FURRINY/4: WUBRINY/1 said that Luis Borme is briefed
him in detail on the difficulties that apparently have built
up regarding WUBRINY/4's suspicisons and said that he plans
to have RECKREY devote himself to this wonest. WUBRINY/1 said
that if this is as serious as Mr. Browne appears to believe
it may be necessary to isolate him elsewhere in the WUBRINY
Interests, such as the partnership, and taper him off for
termination at the end of his six months. WUBRINY/1 suggested
that it might be useful to send him to Greece in conjunction
with the Mowhawk tire recap plant.

4.  Martinique - Pumice: WUBRINY/1 said that all arrango-
ments are now made and this is ready to go forward and that
KUBARK should decide right away the contribution we wished to
be made by RECKREY. I told WUBRINY/ we would be back on this
early next week, but I felt sure it was as had been earlier
discussed, namely, that we will foot the bill for RECKREY
time and travel, etc., expenses. Note: I trust Mr. Allen vil
give this priority attention when he returns.

5.  Haition Banker & M. CHARLES: MUARINY/1 said that he
had encountered M. Charles at the Hetional Airport in Washington
at 1920 hours just at the time he was reporting in to me at my
Ozhon. WUBRINYI said that M. CHARLES was nattily dressed in a
gray silk suit and said that he was on his way to Chicago but
had not said why, M. CHARLES was accompanied by George deMOHREN
SHILDT. WUBRINY/I asked M. CHARLES what in the world is going
on now in Haiti and M. CHARLES shrugged and said that he felt
that they would "bring down Papa Doc." No further details were
given and this was apparently a personal opinion rather than
something based on fact or knowledge.

Distribution:

Orig - Q subject, 10chrono
WUBRINY Ope

C. FRANK STONE ITI
Chief
DO/CORO

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

19/BR
