104-10186-10269 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains information affecting the National Defence of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws. Title
18, USC. Sees. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba REPORT NO. CSCI-316/00699-64
SUBJECT Julian NOVAS Fernandez DATE DISTR. 27 August 1964
NO. PAGES 2 RETURN TO CIA
REFERENCES Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

DATE OF 1964
INFO.
PLACE & Washington, D. C.
DATE ACQ. August 1964 FIELD REPORT NO.
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
Information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

Source was shown a photograph of Julian NOVAS Fernandez
and source identified him as a Cuban Intelligence Officer.
Source saw NOVAS at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City in
March 1964 and assumed he was a functionary there. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.

Headquarters Comments
1. Although source saw Julian NOVAS Fernandez at the Cuban
Embassy in Mexico City in March 1964, the records of this
Agency reveal that source was probably in error in
assuming that NOVAS was assigned to that Embassy and
it is more likely that he was just passing through.
The following traces by this Agency is the basis for
this conclusion.

2. An official Jamaican source, in a report dated 24 March 1964,
stated that Julian NOVAS Fernandez arrived in Kingston,
Jamaica, on 18 March 1964, to take up his duties at the
Cuban Consulate in Kingston as Commercial Attache. Source
said that NOVAS has the appearance of an American and
speaks excellent English. Since his arrival he has been
especially occupied with girls. It should be noted that

SECRET 5
NO FOREIGN DISSEM 4
3
2
1

DIA ARMY NAVY AIR NSA OCR FBI
I&NS

REP CINCLANT CINCSO #
more. Field distribution indicated by "#")

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
SA EOB LNE 5/R 11CT RLI 11NFOR
SA EOB LINE MADR 2 CLREA BIE BRITISHL
MSAR LAWASH/BR71
SA/CI RIDAN
WAVE
LIAISON RID

-LX-1645
-CSCI-316/00699-64,
NO PROJECT (AMMO C1)
COORDINATING RELEAS
4/BR
WMK:LD:swk.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEN

-2-

his wife did not accompany him and source speculated that her
arrival may be delayed in view of NOVAS present inclination for
feminine diversion.

3. In a report dated March 1964, this same source said that
Julian NOVAS Fernandez, the Cuban Commercial Attache at the
Cuban Consulate in Kingston, Jamaica, was born on 2 September 1938,
in Habana, Cuba. He carried diplomatic passport D/64/90 which
was issued in Habana on 20 February 1964. His home address was
given as Carman No. 18, Vibora. He arrived in Kingston from
Mexico on 18 March 1964, on Mexicana Flight Number 305.

4. This same source, in a report dated 28 April 1964, stated that
the wife of Julian NOVAS Fernandez, the recently arrived Cuban
Commercial Attache, arrived in Kingston on 22 April 1964,
via México. Her name is Amarilis Marta VALDES Hijuelos and
she was born on 19 May 1937, in Jiquani, Oriente, Cuba. VALDES
has been indisposed since her arrival in Kingston; this is
probably due to her advanced pregnancy. Her home address i
Cuba is Avenida 31, Number 3622, Habana. She carried diplomatic
passport D. 64,239, issued in Habana on 9 April 1964.

5. This same source, in a report dated 9 May 1964, noted that
the salary and allowances of the new Cuban Commercial Attache,
Julian NOVAS Fernandez, suggests that he is the new Cuban
Intelligence Service chief in Jamaica, succeeding Gerardo
SANCHEZ Robert.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
