14-00000
104-10237-10120
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

AMBIDCY-1

SECRET

15 June 1964

STROPSIS

Per his request, 2nd Lt. Oliverio
Antonio TOMEU Vasallo was recontacted
on 8 June 64 at his place of resid-
ence. He provided additional detail
on Carlos and Ana Gloria de VARONA,
and identified Owiel GONZALEZ and one
"COCO" as possible leads to Jose
LLANGRA Gobel.)

SECRET
document contains
reference 04
exemptions

14-00000

SECRET

15 me 1964

CONTACT REPORT

SUBJECT: Recontact of Oliverio A. TOKKU Pasallo. (201-283206)

1. At 1730 bours, & June 64, the undersigned vas advised
at his residence that a Mr. TOMEU (Subject) had called the
security number given hin (351-6161) and left the message that
he would like to talk again with Paul Stroud (the undersigned).
anytine after 1800 hours, & June.

2. Upon arriving at TOMEU's apartment (Apt. 303, 1028
Vahler Place SR, High Point Apartsent House, Washington, D. C.).
1830 hours, 8 June, TOMEU indicated to his two daughters he would
like to have some privacy and they and his wife, Caridad, left
the apartment.

3. TOMEU apologized for not having recalled the name
"de VAROMA" as that of Anz Gloria de VAROMA, He reiterated
thet, while in hiding to escape capture by the Cuban Governmeat
enbooquent to his infiltration, he know only the first names of
the persons with whom he came in contact, but then added he knew
Ana Gloria de VARONA, in whose house he was hiding, because she
was the sister of Carlos de VARONA, one of his infiltration team
sombers. (This Carlos de VARONA may be identical with oke
Carlos Manual de VARCHA Segura, 201-289985; or one Carlos Arturo
VABONA Arjona, 301-283209.)

4. On several ocoarions, according to TOMEU, he was seated
at the table in Ann's house with several other people. One of
these individuals, known to TOMEU only as "COCO," was described
as the secretary to Jose LLARULA Gobel. There was not, however,
any discussions in which TOMEU recalls LLANUZA or his political
sympathies having been discussed. According to TOMEU's recol-
lestion it was "COCO" who was associated with LLANUZA, and he
vos tot aware of any relationship betesee and
Although TOREJ had no information as to what finally happened
Carlos 40 VAROMA, his infiltration toen mate, he suggested
that if Carlos or And vero available they may be able to
identify "Co00* and provide data on his accessability for
contact.

8. One Caiel CORALES, forner Chief of the Havana Fire
Department, was identified by TOMKU as another possible load

SECRET
document contains
reference 04
exemptions

14-00000

SECRET
-2-

who would know LLANUZA. TONKU affirmed Owiel was previously
with MENOTO Gutierrez in the Second Front of Escambray. Osiel
vas under asylum in the Brazilian babassy (sic, Argentine
Embassy?), when TOMU gained political asylum. when Osiel
finally received his safe conduct from the imbassy, he vent
to Puerto Rico and, TOMEU postulates that Owiel is now again
with MEFOTO in either the United States or Puerto Rico.

6. Tvo snap shots (to be returned) vere provided by
TOMEU of himself and six other individuals who were in asylun
at the some tine. Be identified these, in the photograph in
which Monsignor Eduardo DOZA Kasvidal is seated, ss, from
left to right: Manuel VILLANANAN, Oliverio TONKU, Wils DIAZ
(believed to be in US), Publio RUIZ (US), Jorge Del VALLE
(Mex?), and Quiel GONZÁLEZ (US or Puerto Rico?).

7. Upon completing the debriefing, Stroud and TOMKU
"exchanged small talk" for a while until TOMEU finally stated
that he still wished there was something more he could do to
help free Cuba, and asked "What do you think I should do?"
Stroud replied that no person could really make that type of
decision for another individual, and countered by asking TOMEU
what alternatives he had in mind, other than remaining in the
68 Army as a career military officer.

8. TOMEU replied that, of course, he was once an
agriculturalist, but that there were few job opportunities in
which he could apply his past experience. His sister had also
ssked him if he felt he and his family would want to live with
bor in Spain or Kexico, but he didn't think too much of this
idea. He then stated that he had been asked by Manuel ARTINK
to take a job as an instructor. Without indicating any
association of even awareness of ARTIME's activities, or of
ARTINE's contact with TOMEU (as indicated in TOMEU's 201),
TOMEU was asked what he thought of ARTINE's proposition.
TOMEU stated that he would no longer follow any man as za
individual or as a leader, because a man's ideals, outlook.
and objectives change with time. For example, the people of
Cuba followed Fidel because of the ideals he advocated. When
Fidel took over, his accomplishments gradually becane quite
different from the ideals he had espoused. TOMEU continued
by saying he would "no longer follow a man, One could only
trust his ideals or an organization which followed those
ideals, since a good organization would be less likely of
being controlled by a single man." When saked for an example
of the type of organization he had in mind, TOMKU replied he
Vas most favorably inclined towards the ideals and goals of
the JURE. (The JURE or JRC is an organization crested by
Manolo RAY Rivero around a nucleus of former. 26 July Movement
leaders, Bee memo and attachment dated 23 July 1963 from John
Bugh Cranmins, Coordinator of Cuban Affairm, ARA, Departmens
af State in TOMKU's 201-283206.)
biluar 1

SECRET
Excludes irem automalia
downgrading and
declassificaltes

14-00000

SECRET
•
9. It should, perhaps, be noted here that in an informal
exchange with Mrs. Donald WEBSTER, TOKIU's supervisor at the
Defense Language Institute, Anacostia Naval Annex, 4 June 64,
Mrs. VERSTER volunteered the information that "all of the other
'Brigade students here' have told me they think very highly
of TOKKU, and that he is a very brave nan, because he and his
family vere very wealthy in Cuba and he gave it all up to go
into exile and fight the Castro Regins."

i
;
WR/3A/80/3
C. PAUL PLUND, A.

SECRET
dess rating and
declacettiestian
