14-00000
104-10117-10076
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT - (Appendix I)

Listed below are names of organizations identified by the Attorney General, under his responsibility pursuant to
Executive Order 10450, dated 27 April 1953, to list the names of each foreign or domestic organization, association,
movement, group or combination of persons which he designates as Totalitarian, Fascist, Communist, or subversive,
or as having adopted or having shown a policy of advocating or approving the commission of acts of force or vio-
lence to deny others their rights under the Constitution of the United States, or as seeking to alter the form of
government of the United States by unconstitutional means.

Each applicant or employee and spouse (if any) must review the following list of organizations for certification
purposes, and sign on the last page.

Abraham Lincoln Brigade
Abraham. Lincoln School, Chicago, Illinois
Action Committee to Free Spain Now
Alabama. People's Educational. Association (see Communist Politi-
cal Association)
American Association for Reconstruction in Yugoslavia, Inc.
Americam Branch of the Federation of Greek Maritime Unions
American Christian, Nationalist. Party
American: Committee for European Workers' Relief (see Socialist
Workers Party)
American. Committee for Protection of Foreign Born
American Committee for Spanish Freedom
American Committee for the Settlement of Jewa in Birobidjan, Inc.
American Committee for Yugoslav: Relief,. Inc:
American Committee to Survey Labor Conditions in Europe
American Council: for a Demoerstic: Greece, formerly known as the
Greek American Council;: Greek American: Committee for Na-
tionsi Unity
American Council: on Sortet: Relations
American Croatian Congress
Amertoan. Jewish Labor Council
American. League Against War and Fascism
American League: for Pence and Deтостасу
American. Nationsi. Labor Party
American National Socialist League
American National Socialist Party
American Nationalist Party
American. Patriots, Inc.
American Peace Crusade
American Peace Mobilization
American. Poles for Peace
American. Polish. Labor Council
American. Polish. League
American Rescue Ship Mission (a project of the United American
Spanish Aid Committee)
American-Russian Fraternal. Society
American. Russian. Institute; New York, also known as the Ameri-
can Russian Institute for Cultural Relations with the Soviet
Union
American Russian Institute, Philadelphia
American Russian Institute of San: Francisco
American Russian: Institute of Southern California, Los Angeles
American. Slav Congress
American Women for Peace
American. Youth Congress
American Youth for Democracy
Armenian Progressive League of America
Associated Klans of America
Association of Georgia Klans
Association of. German Nationals (Reichsdeutsche Vereinigung)
Ausland-Organization der NSDAP, Overseas Branch of Nazi Party

Baltimore Forum
Benjamin Davis Freedom Committee
Black Dragon Bociety
Boston. School for Marxist: Studies, Boston, Massachusetts
Bridges-Robertson-Schmidt. Defense Committee
Bulgarian American: People's. League of the United States of
America

California Emergency Defense Committee
California. Labor Bohool,. Inc.,. 111. Divisadero Street, Ban Francisco,
California
Carpatho-Russian: People's Bociety
Central. Council of American Women of Croatian Descent, also
known. ss. Central Council of: American Croatian Women, Na-
tional: Council of Croatian: Women:
Gentral. Japanese: Association (Beikoku: Chuo Nipponjin: Kal)
Central: Japancos. Association: of Southern: California.
Central Organisation: of the German-American National Alliance
(Deutsche-Amerikanische. Einheitsfront)
Cervantes: Fraternal, Society
China. Welfare Appeal, Inc.
Chopin Cultural Center
Citizens Committee for Harry, Bridges
Citizens Committee of the Upper West Side (New York City)
Citizena Committee to Free Kari Browder
Citizena: Emergency Defense Conference
Citizens Protective League
Civil: Ilberties Sponsoring Committee of Pittsburgh
Civil Rights Congress and its affiliated organizations, Including:
Civil Rights. Congress for Texas
Veterans Against. Discrimination. of. Civil Rights Congress of
New York
Civil Rights Congress. for Texas (see Civil Rights Congress)
Columbians
Comite Coordinador Pro: Republica Espanola
Comite Pro Derechos Civiles
(Ben Puerto Rican Comite Pro Libertades Civiles)
Committee fur's Democratic Par Eastern Policy
Committee for Constitutional and. Political. Freedom
Committee. for: Nationalist Action
Committee for Peace and Brotherhood Festival in Philadelphia
Committee for the Defense of the Pittsburgh Bix
Committee for the Negno in the Arts
Committee for the Protection of the Bill of Rights
Committee for. World Youth Friendship and Cultural Exchange
Committee to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland
(Bee. Congress Against. Discrimination; Maryland Congress
Against Discrimination; Provisional Committee to Abollah
Discrimination in the State of Maryland)
Committee to Aid the Fighting South
Committee to Defend Marie Richardson
Committee to Defend the Rights and Freedom of Pittsburgh's
Political Prisonera.
Committee to Uphold the: Bill of Rights
Commonwealth College; Mena, Arkansas
Communist Party,. U. 8.. A., Its subdivisions, subsidiaries, and
affilintos

14-00000
1
:
Communist Political Association, its subdivisions, subsidiaries,
and amitates, including:
Alabama People's Educational Association
Florida Press and Educational League
Oklahoma League for Political Education
People's Educational and Press Association of Texas
Virginia League for People's Education
Congress Against Discrimination
(Bee Committee to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland)
Congress of American Revolutionary Writers
Congrees of American Women
Congress of the Unemployed
Connecticut Committee to Aid Victims of the Smith Act
Connecticut State Youth Conference
Council for Joba, Relief and Housing
Council for Pan-American Democracy
Council of Greek Americans
Council on African Affairs
Croatian Benevolent Fraternity

Dai Nippon Butoku Kal (Military Virtue Bociety of Japan or Mill-
tary Art Society of Japan)
Dally Worker Press Club
Daniels Defense Committee
Dante Alighieri Society (between 1935 and 1940)
Dennis Defense Committee
Detroit Youth Assembly

East Bay Peace Committee
Kisinore Progressive League
Emergency Conference to Save Spanish Refugees (founding body
of the North American Spanish Aid Committee)
Everybody's Committee to Outlaw War

Pamilies of the Baltimore Smith Act Victims
Families of the Smith Act Victims
Federation of Italian War Veterans in the U. S. A., Inc. (Associa-
sione Nazionale Combattenti Italiani, Federazione degli Stati
Uniti d'America)
Finnish-American Mutual Aid Society
Florida Press and Educational League (see Communist Political
Association)
Frederick Douglass Educational Center
Freedom Stage, Inc.
Friends of the New Germany (Freunde des Neuen Deutschlands)
Friends of the Soviet Union

Garibaldi American Fraternal Society
George Washington Carver School, New York City
German-American Bund (Amerikadeutscher Volksbund)
German-American Republican League
German-American Vocational League (Deutsche-Amerikanische
Berufsgemeinschaft)
Guardian Club

Harlem Trade Union Council
Hawaii Civil Liberties Committee
Heimusha Kai, also known as Nokubei Heleki Gimusha Kai, Zaibel
Nihonjin, Heiyaku Gimusha Kai, and Zaibel Heimusha Kai (Jap-
anese Residing in America Military Conscripts Association)
Hellenic-American Brotherhood
Hinode Kali (Imperial Japanese Reservists)
Hinomaru Kal (Rising Sun Flag Bociety - a group of Japanese
War Veterans)
Hokubel Zaigo Bhoke Dan (North American Reserve Officers Asso-
ciation)
Hollywood Writers Mobilization for Defense
Hungarian-American Council for Democracy
Hungarian Brotherhood

Idaho Pension Union
Independent Party (Seattle, Washington)
(Bee Independent People's Party)
Independent People's Party
(See Independent Party)
Industrial Workers of the World
International Labor Defense
International Workers Order, its subdivisions, subsidiaries and
amiistes
Japanese Association of America
Japanese Overseas Central Society (Kaigai Dobo Chuo Kai)
Japanese Overseas Convention, Tokyo, Japan, 1940
Japanese Protective Association (Recruiting Organization)
Jefferson School of Social Science, New York City
Jewish Culture Bociety
Jewish People's Committee
Jewish People's Fraternal Order
Jikyoku Iinkai (The Committee for the Crisis)
Johnson-Porest Group
(See Johnsonites)
Johnsonites
(Bee Johnson-Forest Group)
Joint Anti-Pascist Refugee Committee
Joint Council of Progressive Italian-Americans, Inc.
Joseph Wedemeyer School of Social Science, St. Louis, Missourt

Kibel Beinen Kai (Association of U. 8. Citizens of Japanese An-
cestry who have returned to America after studying in Japan)
Knights of the White Camellia
Ku Klux Klan
Kyffhseuser, also known as Kyffhaeuser League (Kyrhaeuser
Bund), Kyffhaeuser Pellowship (Kyfthaeuser Kameradschaft)
Kyffhaeuser War Relief (Kyffhaeuser Kriegshilfswerk)

Labor Council for Negro Rights
Labor Research Association, Inc.
Labor Youth League
League for Common Sense
League of American Writers
Lictor Bociety (Italian Black Shirts)

Macedonian-American People's League
Mario Morgantini Circle
Maritime Labor Committee to Defend Al Lannon
Maryland Congress Against Discrimination
(See Committee to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland)
Massachusetts Committee for the Bill of Rights
Massachusetts Minute Women for Peace (not connected with the
Minute Women of the U. S. A., Inc.)
Maurice Braverman Defense Committee
Michigan Civil Rights Federation
Michigan Council for Peace
Michigan School of Social Science

Nanka Teikoku Gunyudan (Imperial Military Friends Group or
Southern California War Veterans)
National Association of Mexican Americans (also known as Asocia-
cion Nacional Mexico-Americana)
National Blue Star Mothers of America (not to be confused with
the Blue Star Mothers of America organized in February 1942)
National Committee for Freedom of the Press
National Committee for the Defense of Political Prisoners
National Committee to Win Amnesty for Bmith Act Victims
National Committee to Win the Peace
National Conference on American Policy in China and the Far East
(a Conference called by the Committee for & Democratic Par
Eastern Policy)
National Council of Americans of Croatian Descent
National Council of American-Soviet Friendship
National Federation for Constitutional Liberties
National Labor Conference for Peace
National Negro Congress
National Negro Labor Council
Nationalist Action League

14-00000

Nationalist Party of Puerto Rico
Nature Friends of America (since 1935)
Negro Labor, Victory Committee
New Committee for Publications
Nichibel Kogyo Kaisha (The Great Fujii Theatre)
North American Committee to Aid Spanish Democracy
North American Spanish Aid Committee
North Philadelphis Forum
Northwest Japanese Association

Ohio School of Social Sciences
Oklahoma Committee to Defend Political Prisoners
Okishoma League for Political Education (see Communist Politi-
cal Association)
Original Southern Klans, Incorporated

Pacific Northwest Labor School, Seattle, Washington
Palo Alto Peace Club
Partido del Pueblo of Panama (operating in the Canal Zone)
Peace Information Center
Pesos Movement of Ethiopis
People's Drama, Inc.
People's Educational and Press Association of Texas (see Commu-
nist Political Association)
People's Educational Association (incorporated under name Los
Angeles Educational Association, Inc.), also known as People's
Educational Center, People's University, People's School
People's Institute of Applied Religion
Peoples Programs (Seattle, Washington)
People's Radio Foundation, Inc.
People's Rights Party
Philadelphis Labor Committee for Negro Rights
Philadelphia School of Bocial Science and Art
Photo League (New York City)
Pittsburgh Arts Club
Political Prisoners' Welfare Committee
Polonia Society of the IWO
Progressive German-Americans, also known as Progressive Ger-
man-Americans of Chicago
Proletarian Party of America
Protestant War Veterans of the United States, Inc.
Provisional Committee of Citizens for Peace, Bouthwest Area
Provisional Committee on Latin American Affairs
Provisional Committee to Abolish Discrimination in the State of
Maryland
(Bee Committee to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland)
Puerto Rican Comite Pro Libertades Civiles (CLC)
(Bee Comite Pro Derechos Civiles)
Puertorriquenos Unidos (Puerto Ricans United)

Quad City Committee for Peace
Queensbridge Tenants League

Revolutionary Workers League
Romanian-American Fraternal Bociety
Russian American Society, Inc.

Sakura Kal (Patriotic Society, or Cherry Association composed
of veterans of Russo-Japanese War)
Bamuel Adams School, Boston, Massachusetts
Banta Barbara Peace Forum
Schappes Defense Committee
Schneiderman-Darcy Defense Committee
School of Jewish Studies, New York City
Beattie Labor School, Beattle, Washington
Berbian-American Fraternal Society
Berbian Vidovdan Council
Shinto Temples (limited to State Shinto abolished in 1945)
Silver Shirt Legion of America
Blavic Council of Southern California
Slovak Workers Bociety
Blovenian-American National Council
Bocialist Workers Party, including American Committee for Euro-
pean Workers' Relief
Bokoku Kal (Fatherland Bociety)
Southern Negro Youth Congress
Buiko Sha (Reserve Officers Association, Los Angeles)
Byracuse Women for Peace

Tom Paine School of Social Science, Philadelphia, Pennsylvanis
Tom Paine School of Westchester, New York
Trade Union Committee for Peace
(See Trade Unionists for Peace)
Trade Unionists for Peace
(See Trade Unionists for Peace)
Tri-State Negro Trade Union Council

Ukrainian-American Fraternal Union
Union of American Croatians
Union of New York Veterans
United American Spanish Aid Committee
United Committee of Jewish Bocieties and Landsmanschaft Fed-
erations, also known as Coordination Committes of Jewish
Landsmanschaften and Fraternal Organizations
United Committee of South Slavic Americans
United Defense Council of Southern California
United Hariem Tenants and Consumers Organization
United May Day Committee
United Negro and Allied Veterans of America

Veterans Against Discrimination of Civil Rights Congress of New
York (see Civil Rights Congress)
Veterans of the Abraham Lincoln Brigade
Virginia League for People's Education (see Communist Political
Association)
Voice of Freedom Committee

Walt Whitman School of Social Science, Newark, New Jersey
Washington Bookshop Association
Washington Committee for Democratic Action
Washington Committee to Defend the Bill of Rights
Washington Commonwealth Federation
Washington Pension Union
Wisconsin. Conference on Bocial Legislation
Workers Alliance (since April 1936)

Yiddisher Kultur Farband
Young Communist League
Yugoslav-American Cooperative Home, Inc.
Yugoslav Seamen's Club, Inc.

14-00000
DO NOT USE THIS SPACE
ISSUED BY
PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT
INSTRUCTIONS
THIS DATE (Pill in)
September 6, 1961
OPSERTOB
1. Answer all questions completely or check appropriate box. If question is not applicable, write "NA". Write "Un-
known only if you do not know the answer and it cannot be obtained from personal records. Use blank space at
end of form for extra details on any question for which you have insufficient space.

2. Type, print or write carefully; illegible or incomplete forms will not receive consideration.

3. Consider your answers carefully. Your signature at the end of this form will certify to their correctness. Careful
completion of all applicable questions will permit review of your qualifications to the best advantage.
SECTION I
1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)
GENERAL PERSONAL AND PHYSICAL DATA
FLORES, Daniel
4. HEIGHT
5. WEIGHT
5'8"
165 pds.
6. COLOR OF EYES
Brown
2. AGE
3. SEX
Black
26
8. TAPE COMPLEXION
Dark
MALE
FEMALE
9. TYPE BUILD
Medium
7. COLOR OF HAIR
10. SCARS (Type and Location) Right cheek, one-half inch scar; left upper lip, one-
quarter inch scar; both received playing football
11. OTHER DISTINGUSHING PHYSICAL FEATURES
None
12. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone. State and Country)
(2828 Connecticut Avenue, N. W., #203)
Washington 8, D. C.
14. CURRENT PHONE NO.
(265-8322)08
17. NICKNAMES
Dan
об
15. OFFICE PHONE NO. & EXT.
None
13. PERMANENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State and
Country) AND PHONE NO.
:
08
2828 Connecticut Avenue, N. W.
#203 - Washington 8, D.C.
16. LEGAL RESIDENCE (State, Territory or Country)
Washington, District of Columbia
18. OTHER NAMES YOU HAVE USED
None
19. INDICATE CIRCUMSTANCES (Including Length of Time) UNDER WHICH YOU HAVE EVER USED THESE NAMES.
-
Personal acquaintances twelve years
20. IF LEGAL CHANGE, GIVE PARTICULARS (Where and by What Authority).
SECTION II
NA
POSITION DATA
1. INDICATE THE TYPE OF WORK OR POSITION FOR WHICH YOU ARE APPLYING
Any phase of communications; administration; or personnel
work.

2. INDICATE THE LOWEST ANNUAL ENTRANCE SALARY YOU WILL 3. DATE AVAILABLE FOR EMPLOYMENT
ACCEPT (You will not be considered for any position with a lower
entrance salary).
X
OCCASIONALLY
$ 4,250.00
XFREQUENTLY
Immediately
4. INDICATE YOUR WILLINGNESS TO TRAVEL
CONSTANTLY
OTHER:
5. INDICATE YOUR WILLINGNESS TO ACCEPT ASSIGNMENT IN THE FOLLOWING LOCATIONS (Check (X) each item applicable)
WASHINGTON, D.C.
ANYWHERE IN U.S.
X OUTSIDE CONTINENTAL U.S.
CERTAIN LOCATIONS ONLY (Specify):
6. INDICATE WHAT RESERVATIONS YOU WOULD PLACE ON ASSIGNMENTS OUTSIDE THE WASHINGTON, D.C. AREA.

I would be willing to travel within the United States provided
said travel would not involve a permanent move whereby my legal
residence would be changed. However, it is my wish to live overseas
on a permanent basis.
>
FORM 444 USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
11-58
JOY COONEY
.۱۰
49
3/
(4)

14-00000
SECTION III
1. DATE OF BIRTH
CITIZENSHIP
2. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country)
August 4 1985 10 (San Marcos, Texas
09
X BIRTH
4. CITIZENSHIP ACQUIRED BY
MARRIAGE
OTHER (Specify):
7. COURT ISSUING NATURALIZATION CERTIFICATE
NA
5. DITE NATURAL-
IZED
ΝΑ
3. PRESENT CITIZENSHIP (Country)
United States of America
6. NATURALIZATION CERTIFICATE NO.
NA
8. ISSUED AT (City, State, Country)
NA
9. HAVE YOU HELD PREVIOUS NATIONALITY 10. IF YES, GIVE NAME OF COUNTRY
YES
X NO
11. GIVE PARTICULARS CONCERNING PREVIOUS NATIONALITY.
NA
NA
12. HAVE YOU TAKEN STEPS TO CHANGE
PRESENT CITIZENSHIP
13. GIVE PARTICULARS
X
YES
NO
NA
14. IF YOU HAVE APPLIED FOR U.S. CITIZENSHIP, WHAT IS PRESENT STATUS OF YOUR APPLICATION (First Papers, Etc.)?
ΝΑ
15. DATE OF ARRIVAL IN U.S.
16. PORT OF ENTRY
ΝΑ
NA
18. LAST U.S. VISA (No., Type, Place of lasue)
NA
SECTION IV
EDUCATION
17. ON PASSPORT OF WHAT COUNTRY
NA
19. DATE VISA ISSUED
NA
1. CHECK (X) HIGHEST LEVEL OF EDUCATION ATTAINED
LESS THAN HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE
HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE
TRADE, BUSINESS, OR COMMERCIAL SCHOOL GRADUATE
X TWO YEARS COLLEGE OR LESS
1. NAME OF ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
(San Marcos) Elementary School
3. DATES ATTENDED (From-and-To)
OVER TWO YEARS OF COLLEGE NO DEGREE
BACHELOR'S DEGREE
GRADUATE STUDY LEADING TO HIGHER DEGREE
MASTER'S DEGREE
2. ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
>
2. ADDRESS (City (City, State, State, Country)
DOCTOR'S DEGREE
>
(San Marcos, Texas, U.S.A.
4. GRADUATE
Sept., 1942
-
May, 1951
1. NAME OF OF HIGH SCHOOL
08
San Marcos High School
3. DATES ATTENDED (From-and-To)
Sept., 1951
-
May, 1955
1. NAME OF HIGH SCHOOL
NA
3. DATES ATTENDED (From-and-To)
:
XYES
NO
3. HIGH SCHOOL
2. ADDRESS (City, State, Country)
(San Marcos, Texas, U.S.A.
10
4. GRADUATE
XYES
2. ADDRESS (City, State, Country)
NO
YES
4. COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY STUDY
NAME AND LOCATION OF COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY
6/70
4. GRADUATE
NO
>
SUBJECT
MAJOR
MINOR
DATES ATTENDED
FROM
DEGREE
REC'D
DATE
REC'D
SEM/QTR
HOURS
TO
(Specify)
SECTION IV CONTINUED TO PAGE 3
50

14-00000
SECTION IV CONTINUED FROM PAGE 2
5. IF A GRADUATE DEGREE HAS BEEN NOTED IN ITEM 4 WHICH REQUIRED SUBMISSION OF A WRITTEN THESIS, INDICATE THE TITLE
OF THE THESIS AND BRIEFLY DESCRIBE ITS CONTENT.
NA
NAME AND ADDRESS OF SCHOOL
NA
6. TRADE, COMMERCIAL AND SPECIALIZED SCHOOLS
STUDY OR SPECIALIZATION
FROM
TO
MONTHS
7. MILITARY TRAINING (FULL TIME DUTY IN SPECIALIZED SCHOOLS SUCH AS ORDNANCE, INTELLIGENCE, COMMUNICATIONS, ETC.)
NAME AND ADDRESS OF SCHOOL
STUDY OR SPECIALIZATION
FROM
TO
MONTHS
Marine Security Guard
School - Henderson Hall
Hq. Marine Corps,
Washington 25, D.C.
Security Guard
Training
9/28/58 10/31/58 (5 wks)
8. OTHER EDUCATIONAL TRAINING NOT INDICATED ABOVE.
Weapons Training in Marine Corps.
Acted as partisan during cold weather training at Bridgeport,
California (Pickle Meadows
-
USMC).
SECTION V
1. LANGUAGE
FOREIGN LANGUAGE ABILITIES
COMPETENCE IN ORDER LISTED
R-Read, W-Write, S-Speak
HOW ACQUIRED
(List below each language in
which you розаева any degree
of competence. Indicate your -
proficiency to Read, Write or
Speak by placing a check (X)
in the appropriate box(es).
EQUIV-
ALENT
TO
NATIVE
FLUENCY
FLUENT
BUT
OBVIOUSLY
FOREIGN
ADEQUATE ADEQUATE LIMITED
FOR
RESEARCH
FOR
TRAVEL
KNOW-
LEDGE
NATIVE
OF
COUNTRY
PRO-
CONTACT ACADEMIC
LONGED (with
RES-
parents,
IDENCE etc.)
STUDY
(all
levels)
R
W S
R W
S
R
W S
R W
S R W S
Spanish
X
X
X
2. IF YOU HAVE CHECKED "ACADEMIC STUDY" UNDER "HOW ACQUIRED", INDICATE LENGTH AND INTENSIVENESS OF STUDY.
NA
3. IF YOU HAVE INDICATED FLUENCY FOR A LANGUAGE HAVING SIGNIFICANT DIFFERENCES IN SPOKEN AND WRITTEN FORM, EX-
PLAIN YOUR COMPETENCE THEREIN.
NA
4. DESCRIBE YOUR ABILITY TO DO SPECIALIZED LANGUAGE WORK INVOLVING VOCABULARIES AND TERMINOLOGY IN THE SCIEN-
TIFIC, ENGINEERING, TELECOMMUNICATIONS, MILITARY, AND OTHER SPECIALIZED FIELDS.
Could act as literal interpreter at almost any level.
5. IF YOU HAVE NOTED A PROFICIENCY IN LANGUAGE, WOULD YOU BE WILLING TO USE THIS ABILITY IN ANY POSITION FOR WHICH
YOU MIGHT BE SELECTED?
YES
NO
.3.51

14-00000
SECTION VI
GEOGRAPHIC AREA KNOWLEDGE AND FOREIGN TRAVEL
1. LIST BELOW ANY FOREIGN REGIONS OR COUNTRIES IN WHICH YOU HAVE TRAVELLED OR GAINED KNOWLEDGE AS A RESULT OF
RESIDENCE, STUDY OR WORK ASSIGNMENT. INDICATE TYPE OF KNOWLEDGE SUCH AS TERRAIN, HARBORS, UTILITIES, RAIL-
ROADS, INDUSTRIES, POLITICAL PARTIES, ETC.
NAME OF
TYPE OF
REGION OR COUNTRY
SPECIALIZED KNOWLEDGE
DATES OF
RESIDENCE
OR TRAVEL
DATES AND
PLACE OF STUDY RESI-
DENCE
KNOWLEDGE ACQUIRED BY
TRAVEL STUDY
WORK
ASSIGN
MENT
11/13/58 to
Bolivia
Peru
Chile
Argentina
Uruguay
General knowledge 1/11/60
X
1/14/60 to
General knowledge -11/20/60
X
6/16/59 to
6/21/59
X
6/21/59 to
6/30/59
X
6/30/59 to
7/2/59
X
2. INDICATE THE PURPOSE OF VISIT, RESIDENCE, OR TRAVEL IN EACH OF THE REGIONS OR COUNTRIES LISTED ABOVE.
Marine Security Guard
Vacation
-
-
American Embassy
-
Bolivia and Peru
Chile; Argentina, Uruguay, Panama
3. UNITED STATES PASSPORT NUMBER AND EXPIRATION DATE, IF ISSUED.
No.174850 SP-85575) Passport has been cancelled.
SECTION VII
1. TYPING (wpm) 2. SHORTHAND (wpm)
45 wpm
None
TYPING AND STENOGRAPHIC SKILLS
GREGG
3. SHORTHAND SYSTEM USED CHECK (X) APPROPRIATE ITEM
SPEEDWRITING
STENOTYPE OTHER (Specify):
2. INDICATE OTHER BUSINESS MACHINES WITH WHICH YOU HAVE HAD OPERATING EXPERIENCE OR TRAINING (Comptometer,
Mimeograph, Card Punch, Etc.).
Thermofax, mimeograph, switchboard
SECTION VIII
SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS
>
1. LIST ALL HOBBIES AND SPORTS IN WHICH YOU ARE ACTIVE OR HAVE ACTIVELY PARTICIPATED. INDICATE YOUR PROFICIENCY
IN EACH.
Foot ball
good
Basketball
-
fair
Swimming
:
.-.good
Reading
- average
Contract. Bridge
-
very good
•
2. INDICATE ANY SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS RESULTING FROM EXPERIENCE OR TRAINING WHICH MIGHT FIT YOU FOR A
PARTICULAR POSITION OR TYPE OF WORK.
None to my knowledge
3. EXCLUDING BUSINESS EQUIPMENT OR MACHINES WHICH YOU MAY HAVE LISTED IN ITEM 2, SECTION VII, LIST ANY SPECIAL
SKILLS YOU POSSESS RELATING TO OTHER EQUIPMENT AND MACHINES SUCH AS OPERATION OF SHORTWAVE RADIO (Indi-
cate CW speed, sending and receiving), OFFSET PRESS, TURRET LATHE, SCIENTIFIC AND PROFESSIONAL DEVICES.
None
SECTION VIII CONTINUED TO PAGE 5
52

14-00000
SECTION VIII CONTINUED FROM PAGE 4
4. ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A LICENSED OR CERTIFIED MEMBER OF ANY TRADE OR PROFESSION, SUCH AS PILOT,
ELECTRICIAN, RADIO OPERATOR, TEACHER, LAWYER, CPA, MEDICAL TECHNICIAN, ETC.?
YES
NO
5. IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED "YES" TO ABOVE, INDICATE KIND OF LICENSE AND STATE ISSUING LICENSE (Provide License Registry
Number, If known).
NA
6. FIRST LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE (Year of Issue)
NA
7. LATEST LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE (Year of Issue)
NA
8. LIST ANY SIGNIFICANT PUBLISHED MATERIALS OF WHICH YOU ARE THE AUTHOR (Do NOT submit copies unless requested). INDICATE
THE TITLE, PUBLICATION DATE, AND TYPE OF WRITING (Non-Fiction or Scientific articles, General Interest subjects, Novels, Short
Stories, Etc.). I.
None
9. INDICATE ANY DEVICES WHICH YOU HAVE INVENTED AND STATE WHETHER OR NOT THEY ARE PATENTED.
None
10. LIST PUBLIC SPEAKING AND PUBLIC RELATIONS EXPERIENCE.
Have spoken in my father's church and other churches approximately
150 times. Met and assisted public in Embassies during my tour of
duty with the Marine Security Guard.
11. LIST ANY PROFESSIONAL, ACADEMIC OR HONORARY ASSOCIATIONS OR SOCIETIES IN WHICH YOU ARE NOW OR WERE FORMERLY
A MEMBER. LIST ACADEMIC HONORS YOU HAVE RECEIVED.
None
SECTION IX
1
EMPLOYMENT HISTORY
NOTE: (LIST LAST POSITION FIRST.) Indicate chronological history of employment for past 15 years. Account for all periods
including casual employment and all periods of unemployment. Giveaddress and state what you did during periods of
unemployment. List all civilian employment by a foreign Govemment, regardless of dates. In completing item 9, "De-
scription of Duties consider your experience carefully and provide meaningful, objective statements.
1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To By Mo. and Yr.)
From 1949 to 1953
3. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)
10 (San Marcos, Texas
4. KIND OF BUSINESS
Drug Store
6. TITLE OF JOB
Fountain attendant
9. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES
Employee at soda counter
2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY
Hillburn's Drug Store
об
5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR
06
Mr. William (Hillburn)
7. SALARY OR EARNINGS
$100.00 PER month
8. CLASS. GRADE (If Federal Service)
10. REASONS FOR LEAVING
To participate in school events (football).
SECTION IX CONTINUED TO PAGE 6
.5.
53

14-00000
SECTION IX CONTINUED FROM PAGE 5
2
3
1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To By Mo. and Yr.)
July 1954-June 1955
3. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)
об
2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY
(Diamond) Grocery Store
08
5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR
(South Guadalupe St. San Marcos, Texas
4. KIND OF BUSINESS
Grocery Store
6. TITLE OF JOB
Butcher
9. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES
Mr. (Ignacio Gonzales) 06
7. SALARY OR EARNINGS
$30.00
8. CLASS. GRADE (If Federal Service)
Week PER
Slaughtering and preparing meat for sale as well as actual selling.
10. REASONS FOR LEAVING
To attend college
?
1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To By Mo. and Yr.)
May, 1955
-
3. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)
San Marcos
4. KIND OF BUSINESS
September, 1956
Texas
Private School
6. TITLE OF JOB
Painter's Assistant
9. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES
Painted dormitories in the Academy
10. REASONS FOR LEAVING
To attend school
1
2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY
(San Marcos Baptist Academy
об
5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR
Mr. (John Sparkman) 06
7. SALARY OR EARNINGS 8. CLASS. GRADE (Il Federal Service)
$ 35.00
PER week
4
1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To By Mo. and Yr.)
September, 1956
-
July, 1957
3. ADDRESS. (ND., Street, City, State, Country)
(San Marcos Texas
4. KIND OF BUSINESS
Clothing Store
6. TITLE OF JOB
Sales Clerk
9. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES
2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY
(Economy) Department Stores
08
5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR
06
Mr. Max Mendlovitz)
7. SALARY OR EARNINGS 8. CLASS. GRADE (If Federal Service)
$ 30.00 PER week
Assisted customers in selecting and buying goods.
10. REASONS FOR LEAVING
To join the Marine Corps.
5
1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To By Mo. and Yr.)
July 26, 1957 July 25, 1961
-
3. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)
Marine Corps Schools, Quantico,
4. KIND OF BUSINESS
Military
6. TITLE OF JOB
Marine Corps Museum Attendant
2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY
United States Marine Corps
Virginia
5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR
Col. John Magruder
7. SALARY OR EARNINGS 8. CLASS. GRADE (If Federal Service)
$ 180.00 PER month Cpl. (E-4)
SECTION IX CONTINUED TO PAGE 7
له
54

14-00000
5
6
9. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES
SECTION IX CONTINUED FROM PAGE 6
Acted as guide to all visitors entering Museum, explaining
Marine Corps history, etc. Also on several occasions acted as
interpreter for visiting military personnel from Latin America.
10. REASONS FOR LEAVING
Dis charged
1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To By Mo. and Yr.)
2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY
July 28, 1961 - August 30, 196108 (Ohio Valley) Engineering Company
3. ADDRESS (No., Street. City, State, Country)
S. Capitol and I Streets, S. W.), Washington, D. C.
KIND OF BUSINESS
Construction
6. TITLE OF JOB
Laborer
9. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES
08
Handyman for Company
10. REASONS FOR LEAVING
5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR
Mr. (L. G. Bruce) 06
7. SALARY OR EARNINGS
$2.17
18. CLASS. GRADE (If Federal
Service)
PER
hour
Temporary work while seeking permanent employment.
1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo. and Yr.)
3 ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)
4. KIND OF BUSINESS
2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY
5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR
6. TITLE OF JOB
7
9. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES
10. REASONS FOR LEAVING
7. SALARY OR EARNINGS
$
PER
8. CLASS. GRADE (If Federal
Service)
8. IF PRIOR SERVICE WITH THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS NOTED ABOVE, INDICATE THE
NUMBER OF YEARS CREDITABLE TOWARD U.S. CIVIL SERVICE RETIREMENT, IF KNOWN.
9. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN DISCHARGED OR ASKED TO RESIGN FROM ANY POSITION.
7 1/2 years
YES
HAVE YOU LEFT A POSITION UNDER CIRCUMSTANCES WHICH YOU DESIRE TO EXPLAIN?
IF YOUR ANSWER TO EITHER OR BOTH QUESTIONS IS "YES", GIVE DETAILS
YES
NO
NO
Honorably discharged from United States Marine Corps.
55
-7-
31吋

14-00000
SECTION X
1. ARE YOU REGISTERED FOR THE DRAFT UNDER
THE UNIVERSAL MILITARY TRAINING AND
SERVICE ACT OF 1948 (As amended)
4. IF DEFERRED, GIVE REASON
NA
CHECK (X) AS
APPROPRIATE
ARMY
NAVY
HAVE SERVED
NOW SERVING
-
MILITARY SERVICE
1. CURRENT DRAFT STATUS
X
YES 2. SELECTIVE SERVICE CLASSIFF
CATION
NO
3. SELECTIVE SERVICE NO.
41-65-35-18708
IV-A
5, LOCAL DRAFT BOARD NO. OR DESIGNATION AND ADDRESS
#65
-
101 1/2 E. San Antonio St.,208
2. MILITARY SERVICE RECORD 10 (Lockhart, Texas
