14-00000
104-10176-10015
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Subject has been identified as having
remained in Korea since 28 January
1960, presumably in the above position.

PERSONS WITH WHOM GEORGI PERISTEROPOULOS IS KNOWN TO
HAVE BEEN IN CONTACT:

1. Kenneth C. MILLER, Chase Manhattan Bank, Tokyo, Japan.
Listed as a personal reference by Subject in 1957.

2. Al (Alphonse) FIGOD (name of firm illegible but probably L.
RONDON and manager of.reference by Subject in 1957.

The KANTO DIRECTORY for Tokyo and Yokohama, Japan for
1955 on page 325 lists Mr. and Mrs. Alphonse (Alphonse) FIGOD,
with residence address of 67 Late-Machida, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo,
with business address for Alphonse FIGOD as c/o L. RONDON and
Company, Ltd. (Japan), Tokyo. Tel. 27-3524-4.

Alphonse FIGOD was identified in 1949 as a French citizen, resident
in Shanghai, China at 75 Route Frelupt, who was serving as a cut-
out conveying French Intelligence Requirements to a double agent
in Shanghai in 1949.

Gregory TOPDJU, of the FONTE Company, Tokyo, Japan. Listed
by Subject as a personal reference in 1957.

4. Antonious (Anthony) E. PAPPALOPOULOS, Greek Consul, Yoko-
hama, Japan, listed as a personal reference by Subject in 1957.

5. Valentine HAHN aka Valentin Vasiliyevich ZHAN aka Fen-Shin
HAN, former Soviet Agent, who is elsewhere identified.

6. Emanuel Abraham USTROVSKY, who in 1953 was the manager of
the Tokyo Branch of Sendovich Brothers, Incorporated, by which
organization Subject was then employed.

7. William Hamilton MARTIN, as reported in cover dispatch.

14-00000

8. Officials of the Claggett-Nolan Company, Incorporated, Tokyo,
Japan, whose identities have not been determined on basis of
reported direct contact with Subject, but who are presumed to
include Richard William Nolan CHILD and Mortimer Claggett
COCKE, Junior, the principal officers.

14-00000

SECRET
HX-3

18 November 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR: National Security Agency

ATTENTION:	Mr. S. Wesley Reynolds

SUBJECT:	Derwin Ferguson UTTERELL
		William Hamilton MARTIN
		Espionage - RR
Background Use Only
RETURN TO CIA
Do Not Reproduce

1. Reference is made to information orally furnished by your
office to representatives of this Agency to the effect that William
Hamilton MARTIN at one time mentioned the fact that prior to his
resignation from his civilian contract employment with the Depart-
ment of the Army in Tokyo, Japan, and prior to his actual return to
the United States in late August or early September 1955, he had been
offered a job as a shoe salesman by one George PARIS of Tokyo, Japan.

2. A check of the indices of this Agency reveals that William
MARTIN'S Tokyo acquaintance, who offered him a job as a "shoe sales-
man", and whom MARTIN called "George PARIS" is undoubtedly
identical with George S. PERISTEROPOULOS aka PERISTEROPOULUS aka
PERISTELLOPOULOU aka George S. Perls, aka George PARIS,
born 2 January 1909 at Constantinople, Turkey, but of Greek nationality
since birth. According to information provided directly to representa-
tives of this Agency by a Japanese Liaison service George
PERISTEROPOULOS in about 1946 abbreviated his name to George
PERIS. The liaison service added that he operated the Nickoi Rag
Company in Tientsin and Shanghai, China, as his own business"
between 1927 and 1941, at which time the firm was closed down because
of the war. Between 1941 and 1945 he was under house arrest, or
"confined to his home" in Shanghai, but significantly was not interned
by the Japanese. From 1946 to 1950 he operated the George PERIS
COMPANY in Shanghai. He claimed to have been unemployed between
1950 and 1952, at which time he emigrated to Tokyo, Japan, from
Shanghai, obtaining employment in Tokyo with the firm of SANDOVICH

SECRET
1/800

14-00000

SANDOVICH INCORPORATED, and in 1951 he became the manager of
the Tokyo branch of this firm. In 1954 he established his own firm
under the name of PARIS ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISES, which firm
appears in the trade indices published for Japan, and is reflected in
attachment. In 1955 George PERISTEROPOULOS aka PERIS was
appointed to the position of honorary Deputy Greek Consul in Yokohama,
in which position he was the deputy to Antonious E. PAPPALOPOULES
aka Anthony E. PAPPADOPOULOS, the honorary Greek Consul in
Yokohama. PERISTEROPOULOS appears to have continued in this
diplomatic post until sometime in mid 1959, when an official Royal
Hellenic diplomatic mission to Japan was accredited to the current
government of Japan, and the functions of the Yokohama Consular
Office were taken over from the two honorary consuls.

3. Liaison reported that on 28 January 1960 George
PERISTEROPOULOS aka PERIS departed by air from.and that he had not returned to Japan as of 30 August 1960. Through
a sensitive source in Seoul, with whom representatives of this Agency
are in operational contact, and who is believed to be reliable, it has
been ascertained that George PARIS left Haneda Airport in Tokyo on
28 January 1960 aboard a regular CAT scheduled flight to Seoul, Korea,
where he was to assume the position of resident representative in
Seoul, Korea, of the firm of CLAGGETT-NOLAN COMPANY,
INCORPORATED, an export-import firm, with offices in the Hotel
Bando, in Seoul. The firm is listed in the Foreign Directory for
Seoul as having headquarters in the United States, located at 24
California Street, San Francisco, California. PERIS replaced a
British national named William James Patkir, as representative of the
CLAGGETT-NOLAN Company in Korea,

4. On basis of an official inquiry by a representative of our
Agency to the United States Embassy in Seoul, it was learned that the
above firm of CLAGGETT-NOLAN Company enjoys a good reputation
locally and deals in the sale of electrical and mechanical machinery
and equipment. It was also learned that the capital stock of the firm
is controlled by one Mortimer C. COCKE, Junior, and a Richard W.
CHILD, both of whom are United States citizens. The indices of this
Agency reveal that Mortimer C. COCKE, Junior, of the above rean-
tioned firm is identical with Mortimer Claggett COCKE, Junior, co-
owner with Richard William Nolan Child of the firm of BALCOM
TRADING COMPANY INCORPORATED, which has offices in Tokyo,
Japan, and is incorporated under the laws of Panama. Additional

SECRET

14-00000

Information concerning the above firms and regarding Richard William
Nolan CHILD and Mortimer Claggett COCKE, Jr. will be furnished
separately.

5. The activities and contacts of George PERISTEROPOULOS
aka PERIS in Japan and Korea are currently being investigated by this
Agency.

6. George S. PERISTEROPOULOS aka PERIS, identified above,
and known to William H. MARTIN as "George PARIS, is identical
with the individual whom Valentine HAHN aka Valentine Vasiliyevich
KHAN aka Ivanova HAN, admitted former (1947) Soviet agent, identi-
fied as "George PARIS, a Greek businessman in Tokyo", and as one of
HAHN's close contacts and friends in Japan. When interviewed by
representatives of this Agency in 1958, Valentine HAHN advised that
the above "George PARIS" was the person who introduced HAHN to a
Tokyo nightclub, located off the Ginza, the name of which HAHN gave
only as "The Tomorrow is Too Late Club". HAHN claimed that this
was an exact and direct translation into English of the actual Japanese
name, which, however, he never mentioned during the interview.
Date of HAHN's visit to this "club" in company of George PERIS aka
PARIS, is estimated to have been somewhere between 1954 and 1957.
HAHN stated that at the Tomorrow Is Too Late Club" he was intro-
duced to a Japanese hostess by the name of Noriko MATSUZAKAYA alias Noriko AWAJI with whom HAHN subsequently enjoyed dates.
It is believed that Noriko MATSUZAKAYA AWAJI became the mistress
of Valentine HAHN for an undetermined period of time following his
original introduction to her at the above "club" while in the company
of George PERISTEROPOULOS aka PERIS aka PARIS. HAHN also
advised, that following his original introduction to this establishment
by PERIS, HAHN had taken a number of unnamed married American
nationals, who were stationed in Tokyo, to the same club, where such
persons had also been introduced to and had enjoyed dates with the
hostesses. At this time, there is no information to indicate that
either William Hamilton MARTIN or Derwin Ferguson UTTERELL
were among the United States nationals HAHN referred to as having
been taken to the aforementioned club by HAHN. Neither is there any
information currently available to reflect that William Hamilton
MARTIN was known to Valentine HAHN through their mutual acquaint-
anceship with George PERISTEROPOULOS.

7. As attachment herewith, we are forwarding a chronologically

14-00000

SECRET
organized biographical outline of all information on George
PERISTEROPOULOS aka PERIS, developed to date. Attachment to
this communication indicates that PERIS has been or may still be a
contact of Emanuel Abraham USTROVSKY, suspect Soviet Agent, who
is the Tokyo Branch manager of the firm of SANDOVICH BROTHERS
INCORPORATED, which firm has long been suspected of being a front
or cover organization for Soviet intelligence operations. Attention is
invited specifically to the fact that Attachment reflects that the 1954
Japan Directory of Foreign Firms lists E. USTROVSKY as Tokyo
representative of this firm, which has offices at 41 - Tamura-cho,
4-chome, Shiba, Minato-ku, Tokyo, and telephone lines: 43-1809,
43-4369, 43-4287, whereas in 1958 subject is officially listed as
George PERIS, of PERIS ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISES, located at
14-3 Chome, Tamura-cho, Minato-ku, Tokyo. Telephones: 43-1809
and 43-4287, reflecting that he shared telephone numbers with
SANDOVICH BROTHERS, and presumably with Emanuel A. USTROVSKY.
It is suggested that the Department of the Army, Assistant
Chief of Staff, G-2, intelligence, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation
may have additional information on George PERISTEROPOULOS aka
PERIS and associates.

8. No additional information, to supplement that which is
reported in paragraph 6 above, identifiable with Noriko MATSUZAKAYA
AWAJI could be located in the indices of this Agency.

9. With reference to the Tomorrow is Too Late Club", men-
tioned in paragraph 5 above, to which Valentine HAHN claims to have
been taken by George PARIS, an exact and direct re-translation of the
club name into Japanese from the English as given by HAHN, would
read "Asu de wa Ososugiru". It is noted that the Tokyo Telephone
Directory for 1957 contains a listing for an establishment of this
name, as follows: ASU DE WA OSOSUGIRU, located at Chuo-ku,
Ginza, 8-Chome, 3 Banchi, Tokyo-to, Telephone Nos.: 57-0945,
57-6363, 57-6928. A reliable source, who is familiar with the city of
Tokyo, advised in October 1960, that as of 1959 this establishment
was still operating at the listed location, and that it is a coffee-house
rather than a nightclub in the Western sense, although alcoholic
beverages are available for consumption on the premises by the
patrons. The same source also advised that the above coffee-house
employs "Japanese hostesses", as is customary in such establishments
in Japan, and that such females might be dated under the circum-
stances indicated by Valentine HAHN. However, it should be noted

14-00000

SECRET

that the same source also indicated that the coffee-house known as
ASU DE WA OSOSUGIRU to which he was referring, which is identical
with the establishment of this name listed in the 1957 Tokyo Directory,
is the type of place which is not frequented in general by American
nationals stationed in or visiting Tokyo as tourists; rather it caters
mainly to indigenous patrons and their guests, or to foreign residents
of Tokyo who have been introduced to the place and the management by
indigenous patrons. Those foreigners then become regular patrons
after becoming known to the management. Inasmuch as the above
described ASU DE WA OSOSUGIRU coffee-house generally fits the
description of the "Tomorrow is Too Late Club" mentioned by
Valentine HAHN as a nightclub" to which he was taken by George
PERIS, it is suggested that they are one and the same establishments.

10. In light of the mutual acquaintanceship of William H. MARTIN
and Valentine HAHN with George PERISTEROPOULOS aka PERIS, and
in turn, PERIS' role vis-a-vis HANN's introduction to the ASU DE WA
OSOSUGIRU coffee-house, it is suggested that PERIS may have played
a similar role in terms of introducing William MARTIN to Japanese
night-life. This may have eventually led to MARTIN's contact and
involvement with Japanese individuals, who introduced him to or
indulged his masochistic interests.

11. Additional information on the individuals mentioned above
will be forwarded as developed. It is requested that addressees for-
ward to this Agency any information on George PERISTEROPOULOS
aka PERIS, his contacts and activities, and on the other individuals
mentioned herein.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS):

WILLIAM K. HARVEY

1 Attachment:
as stated

oct Federal Bureau of Investigation
	Department of the Army, ACSI

DDP/FI/D/AP:mem
Orig & 2 - addressee
	1-100-6-124/3 (ZRGRACE)
	1-201-284530
	1-201-282337 (MARTIN)
	2- OS/SRS
	1- chrono

14-00000

SUBJECT:	Summary of Information on
		George PERISTEROPOULOS
		aka George PERIS, aka George D.
		PERISTEROPOULOS, aka George
		PERISTALLEROPOLU, aka
		George PARIS.
Born:		2 January 1909 at Constantinople, Turkey

Nationality
at Birth:	Greek

Present
Nationality:	Greek

Parents:	Names not reflected in the record, both deceased.
		Father died China, Siberia, USSR, date unknown.
		Mother died in Shanghai, China, date unknown.

Marital
Status:	Widower since about 1956; marital dates since that
		date unknown.

Name of De-	Aurelie PERISTEROPOULOS ase CZERNINSKA, DOB
ceased		unknown. Nationality: Polish. Married at Shanghai,
Spouse:		China, date of marriage not reflected in the record.
		Died in Tokyo, Japan circa 1956.

Relatives:	In April 1948, under maiden name, listed as registered
		member of the Polish Citizens' Association of New Poles
		in Shanghai, which organization is loyal to the Polish
		Government in Warsaw.

		Mother-in-law: Mrs. Bronislawa CZERNINSKA, Polish
		National, 1951 resident Shanghai, China; as of 1933 ap-
		plicant for a United States Immigrant Visa filed in Tokyo,
		Japan.

1400000

Sister-in-law: Mrs. Irene ADAMSKY, ase CZERNINSKA;
1953 resident 1306 N'assachnsetts Avenue, San Bernar-
dino, California.

Residences:	1909-1915:		Constantinople, Turkey
		1915-1917:		Illegible, but probably Odessa, Russia
		1917-1923:		Chita, Siberia, USSR
		1923-1924:		Harbin, China
		1924-1937:		Tientsin, China
		1937-1952:		Shanghai, China
		1952-1957:		Tokyo, Japan

		April 1953:		3-Chome, Domenicicho, Ota-ku,
				Tokyo, Japan

		1958:		164, 3-Chome, Lenmachofu, Ota-ku,
				Tokyo. Home telephone: 72-3444

		1959:		164, 3-Chome, Lenmachofu, Ota-ku,
				Tokyo. Telephone: 59-1666.

		1-28 January	Tokyo, Japan
		1960:

		Since 28 Janu-	Seoul, Korea
		ary 1960:

Employment	1927-1935:		Operated "own business", Nickois Rag
Records				Company in Tientsin, China.

		1935-1937:		Unknown

		1937-1941:		Operated "own business", Nickois Rag
				Company, Shanghai, China. Closed in
				1941 because of war.

		1941-1945:		Confined to own home in Shanghai,
				China, but not interned by Japanese
				occupation authorities.

		1946-1950:		Operated firm George Peris Company,
				Shanghai, China.

14-00000

1950-1953:	Unemployed (presumably in Shanghai).

1946-1951:	Subject and wife from Shanghai, China
		applied for visas to enter Japan from
		China. Subject claimed he held Greek
		Passport A 6/50-1 issued by the Greek
		Consulate in Shanghai on 20 September
		1950 and valid until 9 September 1951.

		Wife held Greek Passport A 20/56-1,
		issued Shanghai, 15 June 1951, valid
		until June 14, 1952.

		Subject indicated he was engaged in
		"Insurance and smart business, deal-
		ing in raw wool."

1952:		First entered Japan at Yokohama on
		2 February 1952 with status of semi-
		permanent resident. Stated on arrival
		in Yokohama to Japanese Police that he
		had come to Japan "to seek peace and
		freedom".

		Employed by Tokyo Branch of Sando-
		vich Brothers, Incorporated, through
		1952.

		Other indices consulted reflect that
		Subject in 1952 operated the firm of
		George PERIS in Tokyo, Japan during
		1952.

1953:		Subject was elevated from the position
		of "employee" to that of "manager of"
		the Tokyo Branch of Sandoovich Brothers
		in 1953.

		Also, Subject was reported still operat-
		ing the George PERIS Company in
		Tokyo in 1953.

14-00000

1954:		Subject reportedly terminated his
		employment with Sandoovich Brothers
		sometime during 1954, exact date not
		known, and established his own firm
		under the name of PARIS ASSOCIATED
		ENTERPRISES.

		The 1954 Japan Directory of Foreign
		Firms lists SANDOVICH BROTHERS
		as a United States Firm, with offices
		at 41 - Tamura-cho, 4-chome, Shiba,
		Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan. Telephones:
		43-2609, 43-4369, 43-4287, and lists
		E. OSTROVSKY as the Tokyo Representa-
		tive.

		E. OSTROVSKY, of course, is Emanuel
		Abraham OSTROVSKY, who is known to
		have been the Tokyo Branch manager of
		the above firm, who resided in 1954 at
		19 Kouncho-kita, Minato-ku, Tokyo.
		Home telephone: 43-6773.

1955:		Subject continued in his position as
		President of PARIS ASSOCIATED ENTER-
		PRISES.

		During 1955, exact date not specified,
		Subject was named to the position of
		Honorary Deputy Greek Consul in
		Yokohama, in which position he became
		the deputy to Antonious E. PAPPADOP-
		OULCS, the Honorary Royal Greek
		Consul in Yokohama.

		It is presumed that the Consulate in 1955
		was probably located at the same address
		given in the December 1957 Gaimusho
		"Consular List", which reports the
		following information:

14-00000

		"Royal Greek Honorary Consulate in
		Yokohama, Sutherland Building, No. 75,
		Yamashita-cho, Naka-ku, Tel. 8-4113.

		Mr. Antonious PAPPADOPOULOS,
		Honorary Consul

		Mr. George PERISTEROPOULOS,
		Honorary Deputy Consul."

1956:		Continued as President of PERIS
		ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISES, Tokyo.
		Continued as Honorary Greek Deputy
		Consul, Yokohama.

1957:		Continued as President of PERIS
		ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISES, Tokyo.
		Continued as Honorary Greek Deputy
		Consul, Yokohama.

1958:		Continued as President of PARIS
		ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISES; Listed in
		Directories as George PARIS
		ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISES, located
		at 14-3 Chome, Tamura-cho, Minato-
		ku, Tokyo, Tel. 43-1809 and 43-4287.
		(1958 Japan Times Directory)

		A separate listing is also carried in the
		name of George PERISTEROPOULOS with
		office telephone listed as: Yokohama
		8-1713, which is the same telephone
		number given in the December 1957 Con-
		sular List for the Royal Greek Honorary
		Consulate in Yokohama, above.

1959:		Subject continued as president of PERIS
		ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISES, and is
		listed as George PERIS, in connection
		with this firm, whose offices according

14-00000

1960:		to the 1959 Japan Times Directory are
		located at 14-3 Chome, Tamura-cho,
		Shiba, Minato-ku, Tokyo. Telephone
		59-1606.

		It should be noted that this is the same
		address listed for subject and the PARIS
		ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISES in the
		preceding year, but there is a change
		in the telephone exchange.

		On 28 January 1960, Subject departed
		by air from Haneda Airport, Tokyo, destination -

		from a source believed to be reliable
		that subject was going to Korea as the
		Seoul Resident representative of the
		American-owned firm of Claggett-Nolan
		Company, Inc., which has its home office
		at 24 California Street in San Francisco,
		California, and maintains an office in
		Seoul in the Bando Hotel. Subject
		allegedly replaced one William James
		Patkir, a British National, in this post.
		The capital stock of Claggett-Nolan
		Company, Inc. is controlled by Mortimer
		Claggett Cooke, Junior, and Richard
		William Nolan Child, both American
		citizens, who are also the principal
		controlling stockholders and directors of
		the Balcom Trading Company, which
		has its main offices in the Fukoku Building, 2-Uchisaiwai-cho, 1-Chome,
		Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan, but also has
		branches in Seoul and Pusan, Korea.
		Balcom Trading Company also
		controls another subsidiary firm known
		as Allied Distributors, Incorporated,
		with which firm Thomas Robert Kirk
		aka Boris Yaskis has been affiliated
		for a number of years.

14-00000

Subject has been identified as having
remained in Korea since 28 January
1960, presumably in the above position.

PERSONS WITH WHOM GEORGI PERISTEROPOULOS IS KNOWN TO
HAVE BEEN IN CONTACT:

1. Kenneth C. MILLER, Chase Manhattan Bank, Tokyo, Japan.
Listed as a personal reference by Subject in 1957.

2. Al (Alphonse) FIGOD (name of firm illegible but probably L.
RONDON and manager ofreference by Subject in 1957.

The KANTO DIRECTORY for Tokyo and Yokohama, Japan for
1955 on page 325 lists Mr. and Mrs. Alphonse (Alphonse) FIGOD,
with residence address of 67 Late-Machida, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo,
with business address for Alphonse FIGOD as c/o L. RONDON and
Company, Ltd. (Japan), Tokyo. Tel. 27-3524-4.

Alphonse FIGOD was identified in 1949 as a French citizen, resident
in Shanghai, China at 75 Route Frelupt, who was serving as a cut-
out conveying French Intelligence Requirements to a double agent
in Shanghai in 1949.

Gregory TOPDJU, of the FONTE Company, Tokyo, Japan. Listed
by Subject as a personal reference in 1957.

Antonious (Anthony) E. PAPPALOPOULOS, Greek Consul, Yoko-
hama, Japan, listed as a personal reference by Subject in 1957.

5. Valentine HAHN aka Valentin Vasiliyevich ZHAN aka Fen-Shin
HAN, former Soviet Agent, who is elsewhere identified.

6. Emanuel Abraham USTROVSKY, who in 1953 was the manager of
the Tokyo Branch of Sendovich Brothers, Incorporated, by which
organization Subject was then employed.

7. William Hamilton MARTIN, as reported in cover dispatch.
