2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
UNCLASSIFIED
ONLY
CONFT VITAL
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEL
SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:
WH/4/EXO
TO: (Officer designation, room number, and
building)
DATE
OFFICER'S
INITIALS
RECEIVED
FORWARDED
NO.

DATE
5 July 1960
SECRET
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

C/Prop
2.	(TOOMEY)
3.	(MANEY)
4.
5.	PROP
6.	Alice
7.	Kay
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.

FILE Tempo
KHRUSHCHEL
visit
shumay
Couve up
onlons (his)
nest hip,

File Gindame

FORM
1 DEC 56
610
USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1958476731

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

VIA:	Deputy Director (Plans)
SUBJECT:	Operational Exploitation of Khrushchev Visit to Cuba

: 1. This memorandum is for the Director's information only and does
not require action.

2. An invitation by the Government of Cuba to Khrushchev to visit
that country has been officially accepted, but as yet no definite time has
been set. There has been speculation that Khrushchev would arrive in
Habana for the 26th of July celebrations, while a press report, confirming
a statement of the Soviet Ambassador in Mexico, predicts the arrival for
August. Earlier reports had suggested December 1960 or January 1961
as possible dates.

3. It is felt that a successful visit by Khrushchev to Cuba would assist
further in the establishment of a solid Soviet understanding with that country,
with disturbing overtones on the possible establishment of closer Soviet
relationships in other parts of Latin America. For this reason it is
desirable to prevent the visit or to counteract it by a show of massive
opposition by the Cuban people.

4. On 21 June the Habana Station was asked for its views on possitie
plans. In the exchange of cables that has followed, the Station and Headquartert
are now in agreement that the best course of action lies in two operations.
First, a massive church manifestation or rally to be called for some other
purpose would afford the people of Cuba an obvious way to express their
protest. Second, the instigation of rumors that Khrushchev's life will be
in danger while in Cuba from a well-planned assassination attempt would
be propagated from other Latin American countries.

5. Because of the need of avolding action in Cuba in this matter th
would imperil Station assets, it has been determined that such assets would
be used only as a means of iustigating the church to hold the rally.

6. The latest report from Habana indicates that plans are going
satisfactorily. Bishop Boza Masvidalis described as enthused about the

-2
6
Idea.
ith Rose Lavastida, a prominent lay leader, he is now visiting
Camaguey to solicit the support of the local Bisanp. (Lavastide wi
will will seek
Bimilar support in Santiago. Tentative plans call for a congress or rally
on Assumption Day, 15 July.

7. The Station has asked that the entire effort begin with Guba,
without initial outside support from Cuban exile groups or the sponsors of
the anti-Castro programs on Station WRUL. A cable has been sent to 16-11
Bogotato have the CELAM) Spark similar rallies throughout Latin America.
WH press assets will be called upon to support these and the Cuban asso
when plans are firmer.
24
8. The (Argentine liaison service) will be asked to send one of its
contacts in the field of journalism to Habana to contact officials and to
visit the offices of the New China News Agency. He will be instructed to
ask Communist stall members there what substance there might be to
rumors he has heard that an assassination attempt on Khrushchev will take
place. The sante technique is being used through three Cubans living in
Miami who are in constant contact with Cuba. Speculation on such attempte
will be surfaced on the WRULL program and in certain controlled Latin
prees media.
J. C. Eing
Chief
Western Hemisphere Olvision
EHHinkle:Irh
5 July 1930
Distribution:
Original and 1 - Addressee
1 - DDCI
1 - DDP
1 - C/WHD
1 - C/WH/4
I
1 - Originator
WH/4/Crono

TO	: C/WH/4	
2 July 1960

Subject:	Khrushchev Visit to Cuba

1. Bäckground. An invitation to visit Cuba has been extended
to Khrushchev by the Government of Cuba. The invitation has been
accepted, but do definite time has been set. There has been some
speculation that Khrushchev would arrive in Havana in time for the
celebrations of the 26th of July. The press has reported that he
will arrive in August (a date confirmed by a statement of the Soviet
Ambassador in Mexico). Other reports say the visit will not take
place for several months, probably in December or January. In any
event we must plan for the possibility of the July visit.

It has been stated from several sanguine quarters that we
should "do the same thing to Khrushchev that the Japs did to Eisen-
hower". This is a completely unrealistic dream.

It is true that a successful Khrushchev visit to Cuba
would be the final stone in the construction of a solid Soviet
base in Cuba, with disturbing overtones for the possible construction
for more Soviet ideoligical bases in all of Latin America. For that
reason we are trying to do what we can to prevent the visit, or at
least to show a massive s opposition to it.

2. ExploitationPlans. On 21 June Hqs sent a cable to Havana
asking for views on possibility of a major effort to force cancellation
of the visit. A resulting series of cables shows that the station and
headquarters are now in agreement that our best hope lies in

a. A massive Church manifestation or rally, which
though called for some other purpose, would be to the people
of Cuba an obvious way to express their protest. And

b. from outside Cuba, instigating of rumors that
Khrushcher's life will be in danger from a well-planned
assassination attempt.

3. Mr. Helms has told us that he wants CIA to undertake no
action that will imperil Station assets. This injunction was placed
on us while we were exchanging cables with Havana. The result is that
station assets are actively instigating the church to hold the rally.
A cable from Headquarters has instructed the station to
continue this course of action as long as there is "safety in numbers",
i.c., as long as it is a church action rather that an AMPALM one.

4. The latest cable from the field (IN 18883) reports that
:
that plans are going satisfactorily Bishop Boza Masvidelis M
Em "enthused" about the idea. With Jose Lavastida a pá prominent
lay leader, he is now visiting Camaqusy to solicit the support of
the local ER Bishop. Jose Lavastida a promient lay leader, is
ting Camaguey
in Santiago to seek the help k of the Santiago Bishop. Tentative
plans call for a congress or rally on Assumption Day, 15 July.

The station has asked that the entire effort at least
begin within Cuba, without cuside support from FRD or WRUL.
29
5. Hemisphere Plans. A cable has gone out to CELAM, (in 16-11
Bogota, asking this Church organization to spark similar rallies
throughout Latin America. JMRAKE assets will be called upon to
support these and the Cuban meeting when a plans are firmer.
이
a
On the assassination E angle: (BIOGENISIS)
controlled agent (in B.A), is soon to visit high officials in
16-29
Havana. He has been instructed to ask these leaders what sub-
stance there might be to the rumors he has heard that an attempt
will take place..... Rivas, a friend of Rudy Gomez, is using the
same gx technique through three Cubans living in Miami
who are constant contact with Cuba.

Speculation on the assassination attempts will be surfaced
on the WRUL program, in AMPACA'S paper, etc.

David A. Phillips
