20
14-00000
104-10170-10121
i
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
INCSEVES NO 19
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 3 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
B
E-REF TO FILE NO.
FICE RID
DESTROY
SECRET
RET. TO BRANCH
SIG. PERSON/UNIT NOTIPICO
ACTION
WH/C S
INFO
TOTAL COPIES
:
NC
PLAILCO
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
ADVANGE COPY
UNIT
ΤΙΜΕ
BY
RID COPY
.......
FILE VR EUR 8, CI/OPS,
SECRET20205
WAVE
MNAVE 3725
MADRID INFO DIRECTOR
SIJAI
RID 3464 (IN 20555) *
REF NADRID 3484
3.
:
NO ADDITIONAL PERTINENT TRACES SUB REF 200CT 661522060
2. VIEW SUBJS CONNECTION ANHINTS, STATION WOULD.
::
APPRECIATE RECEIVING RESULTS SUBJS DEORIEFING,
SECRE!
ST
*REQUEST TRACES RENE BLANC
SECRET

19-124-26/3
20 Oct, 1966
14-00000
TO
defa
FROM
DISPATCH
Chief, WH
:
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
FRO
POSED
PROCESSING
ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
X
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED
HEADQUARTERS DESK
CAN JUDGE INDDUNG
ABSTRACT
ACCOM
PLISHED
SUBJECT
Chief of Station, JMWAVE
TYPIC/ANSPELL/Operational
MICROFILM
AMSPELL Progress Report, January through June 1966
ACTION REQUIRED: REFERENCES
ACTION REQUIRED: FYI.
REFERENCES: A. UFGT 16628
B. UFGT 15216
A. OPERATIONAL
1. During the period under review, financial support to the
AMSPELL organization has been reduced significantly. As reported
in roferences, the primary reason for the reduction was the
inconsistencies of many AMSPELL activities with current WOFACT
directives.
2. Cooperation between AMSPELL and the Station has been maintained
through AMHINT-2, the principal agent of the AMSPELL operation.
Although no longer being carried on a salaried basis, AMHINT-2 has
continued to be responsive to Station guidance.
3. AMSPELL has continued its correspondence with various student
groups and leaders throughout the free world, and especially in
Latin America. AMSPELL has contacted various international student
groups requesting passage money so that its delegates could be
afforded the opportunity to attend upcoming international student
conferences,
:
4. A campaign was launched to call attention to the plight of
Pedro Luis BOITEL, a Cuban student leader who was unjustly
imprisoned on the Isle of Pines by the CASTRO regime. A report/
denunciation of the imprisonment of BOITEL was prepared and sent
to AMSPELL's principal contacts in the Latin American student field
seeking support for AMSPELL's demand that BOITEL be released.
(continued)
Attachment:
declassicaian
Prop Samples, USC
CS COPY
Distribution:
I CROSS REFERENCE TO
3-WH/C, w/att., USC

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
DATE TYPED
DATE DISPATCHED
26 July 1966 JUL 29 1966
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFGA 25653
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
19-124-26/3
119-124-26/3
14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
SECRET
B. PRODUCTION
1. AMSPELL bi-monthly magazine (copy being forwarded under
separate cover)
a.
:
AMSPELL efforts during recent months have been mainly
concentrated on the preparation of its new bi-monthly magazine.
8,000 copies of the magazine's first edition which was published
in May 1966 were distributed as follows:
(1) 3,000 copies sent to Latin America
(2) 1,100 copies distributed by AMSPELL delegations
(3)
3,000 copies distributed among Cubans in the United
States
(4) 100 copies were sent to AMSPELL contacts and
student movements in Europe, Africa, Asia, Canada, etc.
(5) Members of the AMSPELL organization also received
copies in which the AMSPELL internal bulletin was
inserted. Each member was asked to promote the sale
of subscriptions and advertising space as well as to
seek persons who would collaborate with the magazine
staff by contributing their talents.
(6) The remainder was distributed among the various
embassies, official representations of governments and
organizations, both in the United States and abroad, as
well as among Cuban exile journalists and organizations.
2. AMSPELL Cuban mailing
Since March 1966, 1,000 envelopes containing AMSPELL propa-
ganda have been mailed to Cuba on a monthly basis. This propaganda
is directed particularly at students who support the regime (copies
of the propaganda are being forwarded under separate cover).
3. Press...
The majority of AMSPELL press releases have been in connection
with the mistreatment of political prisoners by the Castro regime.
Other releases concerned the aforementioned BOITEL campaign and a
tribute to Cuban martyrs who gave their lives fighting against the
BATISTA dictatorship in 1957. (Copies of the press releases are being
forwarded under separate cover.)
CINAFINANCIAL
1. Final payment of AMSPELL salaries and termination bonuses was
made in February in line with the Station's reduction of financial
support to AMSPELL. Under the present arrangement JMWAVE support is
limited to $1,000 monthly, this includes the $200 monthly financial
support payment to AMHINT-l's family, office overhead, and support for
printing/distributing the bi-monthly publication,
2. The following amounts were expended by the Station in support
of AMSPELL activities during the second half of FY 66:
Operational expenses
Salaries and termination bonuses
Total expenditures
$ 9,929.74
6,200.00
$16,129.74
D. FUTURE PLANS
It is anticipated that AMSPELL efforts in the near future will be
directed at the upcoming CLAE meeting which is scheduled to be held
in Havana 29 July to 9 August 1966.

53a
USE PREVIOUS EDITION
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
PAGE NO
CONTINUED
2 of 2
14-00000
NO
DISPATCH
Chief, WH
INFO
FROM
SUBJECT
Chief of Station, JMWAVE S
PROCESSING
PHO
ろっつ
ATAW
ACCOM
PLISHED
Xς ανιαρ
スコ DESH
CARD TUN
ABSTRACT
TYPIC/AMSPELL/Operational
AMSPELL Progress Report, November and December 1965
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
ACTION REQUIRED: FYI
REFERENCE: UFGA 23946, 24-November 1965
A. OPERATIONAL
1. General
During the period under review AMSPELL continued operations
aimed at the student/youth target. AMSPELL sent a circular letter
to students and youth in Cuba in an effort to establish a "dialogue"
between these young people and AMSPELL. Other AMSPELL activities
during this period are contained below.
2.
Printed Propaganda.
a.
Monthly AMSPELL Bulletin:
November
December
To Cuba
4,800
4,800
To Latin America (Spanish)
2,900
2,900
To Latin America (French)
1,925
1,925
To Latin America (English)
1,925
1,925
b. The regular bulletin highlighted the following themes:
The need for solidarity in the struggle for liberty for Cuban
political prisoners; the new trend in Polish communism and its
criticism toward the system; the attitude of Soviet students toward
totalitarianism and the failure of Castro's plan to indoctrinate
Cuban students. The December bulletin carried a special Christmas
message. (Copies of the bulletin are being sent for Headquarters
information under separate cover.)
3. Radio Propaganda
19-12-4-26/3
AMSPELL continued its regular weekly radio broadcast during
Attachment:
EF1
GROSS REFERENCE TO,
DATE TYPED (Continued)
17 Feb 66
CATE DISPATCHED
FEB 21 1966
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUAISER
Prop Samples, USC ATTD RIDIAN. CS COPS! Le OPGA 24575
Distribution:
CLASSIFICATION
3- WH/C, w/att. USC
AH-
SECRET
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUANSER
19-124-26/3
14-00000
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
SECRET
BASPATOM SYMEUL AND NUMBER
UFGA 24575
November and December without interruption. Topics discussed on
the program included: The war in Viet Nam; commentaries supporting
work of student groups throughout the world in combating communism;
news of student and youth activities in Cuba and Latin America;
world news reports; and a special Christmas message in December.
4. Press Releases
During the poriod under review, AMSPELL press releases,
themes of which are listed below, received replay as follows:
Tighter control over university
Diario las Amoricas: a.
councils in Cuba.
b. Activities of Cuban agents in Mexico.
The large number of relatives of
C.
high Cuban officials reported among refugees,
Bohemia Libre:
a. Reports on the exodus.
b. Comments on Che Guevara's
disappearance and his wife's condition.
AMHIM:
a. ANSPELL commonts on a Miami Herald
article.concerning statements by Cuban students regarding the
incompatibility between Christianity and Communism.
b. Cuban agents reportedly responsible
for demonstrations against Secretary of State Dean Rusk and Senator
Robert Kennedy while on tours in Latin América.
in Cuban universities.
B. FUNDS EXPENDED
c. Analysis of anti-Christian policies
Salaries:-
November
December
$ 2,250.00
$ 2,250.00
Operational Expenses:
$ 3,850.00
C. FUTURE ACTIVITIES
...
$ 4,150.00
An overall review of AMSPELL operations is currently being made
by the Station. Then discussions between the Station and AMSPELL
are concluded, it is anticipated that Station support of the AMSPELL
organization will be considerably reduced..
CLASSIFICATRW
53a
USE PREVIOUS EDほら!
SECRET
PHILHELMIRO
PAGE NO
CONTINUED
2 of 2
14-00000
NO
DISPATCH
Chief of Station, AVE
S-E-C-R-Ε-Γ
XX
Chiof, Western Hemisphere Division
SUBTYPIC/Operational
AMEARB-54/AMSPELL
ACTION PEJOD REFERENCES
FYI
UPGA 23946 (Para. 4) Dated 30 November 1965
PROCESSING
MAPPED FOR INDT
NO INDEXING M
ONLY QUALIFIED DES
CAN JUDGE INC
MICROFILM
KULAMP contacted AMBARD-54 and in turn put in contact with
Identity, which is a KULAMP oporation located in New York. AMBARB-54
has not yet been placed on Identity's payroll but, according to
KULAMP, will be employed when he has obtained some travel visas
which will be necessary in his job assignment with Identity. His
work will involve traveling to Latin America on a survey assignment
for Identity.
Attachment:
1 - Iden - U/S/C/
Distribution:
3- COS, JMWAVE with S/C/A
Ernest A. LUSBY
19-124-2613
CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMER
UFGW-5726 CS COPY
CLASSIFATL
S-E-C-R-E-T
DATE
4 DEC 1955
HOS FILE NUMBER
19-124-26/3
1.03
TYPED: *8Dec 65
Distribution:
1
1
1
25
Subj Filek
WH/C/ESEC
PP/Chrono
ABSTRACT
is
WH/C/CS/
FORM 53 USE PREVIOUS EDITION
WH/C/CA/PP
DC/WH/C/CA
DODS
WH/C/MO
YFICE ST
C/WH
DATE
ORIGINATING
nea
COORDINATING
OFFRER'S NAME.
D.Krus
RELEASING
OFFICER'S SKINATURE
C.T
3518
DISPATC
14-00000
SECRET
BEPARATS COVER ATTACHMENT TO UFGV-6726
IDENTITY: Freedom Fund
SECRET
DATE:
14-00000
DES:
YESNO
ASSIFY TO FILE NO.
-REF TO FILE NO.
ILE RIDO RET, TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.
FROM
9-120-26,
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
56
22
SECRET
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
PP
TAWAVE
ACTION
☑ RID COPY
INFO
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLETS
1
SEPRODUCTION PROMIPITED
CA
C
7
UNIT
TIME
DY
FILE, VA CEG WER CAR CA/O4 C/S FIER/PRI 01/16 20
SECPE I 1118282
A
DIR INFO ATHE MADR CITE WAVE 7852
TYPIC MHSPAWN THUN IFORM
REFS: A. DIR 6440
B. ATHE 79708
(IN11828)
11 DEC 65.IN 12973
1. SUBJECT DELEGATION DEPARTED WAVE 10 DEC AFTER RECEIVING
ASSURANCE FROM TSIRIMOXOS SECRETARY THAT MEETING POSSIBLE.
FIRST SCHEDULED FOR 11 DEC BUT CHANGED TO 12 DEC DUE URGENT UN
MATTER. WILL ADVISE OUTCOME.
2. MEMBERS DELEGATION: AMWORD-3 (IDEN A), ANELEAK-1 (IDEN B)
AND IDEN C.
SECRET
CFN 7852 64401 7970 10 TSIPIMOKOS 11 12 AMWORD-3 A AMBLEAK-1 В
C
BT * REQUESTED WAVE COMPLY SENS DEL TO SEE
GREEK DEINTY MINISTER NY
SECRET
14-00000
NO
DISPATCH
Chief, WH
Chief of Station, JMWAVE
SGECT TYPIC, Operational
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
AMSPELL Progress Report, July-October 1965
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
ACTION REQUIRED: FYI
REFERENCE: UFGA 23069, 16 September 1965
A. OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES
1. General
XX
PROCESSING
ACTION
MARAFO FOR INCERING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
CALY QUALIFIED
HEADQUARTERS DESA
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
ABSTRACT
MICROFILM
During the period under review, AMHINT/2 visited Caracas and
turned in a report on the university situation in that country which
was submitted in Reference. In addition to the normal propaganda
activities, the AMSPELL group waged a campaign for the release of
political prisoners and has intensified this campaign since the
announcement of the "open door" policy on 28 September 1965.
ACCOM
PLISHED
2. Propaganda Production (samples forwarded under separate cover)
a. 4,800 copies of the bulletin were mailed into PBRUMEN each
Among the
month. Over 6,000 copies of the international edition were sent
monthly to addressees in Latin America and Western Europe.
main issues treated in the bulletins were: internal problems of
PBRUMEN communism as a result of Ben Bella's overthrow; communist
atrocities in Viet Nam; testimony of Alberto Muller on the secret
executions in Communist PBRUMEN; the comments of Identity A with
respect to the PBRUMEN situation, the exodus and Che Guevara's
disappearance.
b. Miscellaneous press clippings and press releases are also
forwarded under separate cover. Included is an article by AMHINT/2
on the student discontent in PBRUMEN which appeared in Identity B.
Other articles and press releases were used by Identities B, C and D
and by AMHΙΜ.
Attachment: USC
1-Prop samples
2-Iden List
Distribution:
3-WH/C,w/att, usc
:
18-124-2013
(continued),
DATE TYPED
ES COPY-
24 Nov 65
DATE DISPATCHED
NOV 30 1965
CROSS REFERENCE TO
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UPGA-23946
HEADGAJARTERS FILE NUMBER
19-124-26/3
14,00000
CLASSIFICATION
MISSY AND NUMER
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
SECRET
UFGA-23946
3. Rádio Propaganda
AMSPELL continued its weekly radio programs and in addition
prepared tapes for distribution to numerous Latin American radio
stations. One such tape featured statement's made by Alberto MULLER
before his imprisonment. Local Spanish language stations also used
AMSPELL tapes.
Nas
Other developments
In September, AMBARB/54 and two other members of AMSPELL
resigned to scek other employment. The Station would appreciate current
information regarding KULAMP's interest and possible employment of
AMBARB/54 (per DIR 40414). He is an intelligent and capable individual
and is currently investigating job possibilities in ZRMETAL with
several international agencies.
B. FUNDS EXPENDED
Salaries
July
August
$3,000.00 $3,000.00
Operational Expenses
4,009.70 3,850.00
September
$4,100.00 $2,250.00
3,850.00 3,850.00
October
Totals
$7,009.70 $6,850.00
$7,950.00 $6,100.00
*Includes one month's salary as severance pay.
C. FUTURE PLANS
AMSPELL will continue its political action and propaganda activities
during the coming months and will engage in special campaigns and press
releases as current developments dictate.

53a
USE PREVIOUS EDITIONL
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
Philip G. ELMARD
PAGE NO
CONTINUED
2 of 2
14-00000
FORM
९००
1401
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
HON
SECRET
IDENTITY LIST
SMALL AND NUMELR
Separate Cover Attach-
ment #2; UFGA 23946
Identity A. Carlos Andres Perez, former Venezuelan Minister of
"
B. Diario las Americas
11
C. Miami Herald
D. Time Magazine
Interior.
CLASSIFICATION
PAGE NO
53a
USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
SECRET
CONTINUED
2
14-00000
INDEXIO VE
CLASSIFY
NOREF TO FILE NO.
DESTROY
ACTION
SAGE
TOTAL COPIES
GROUP
RET. TO BRANCH
SECRET
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFICO
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
12
0
ADVANCE. COPY
UNIT
TIME
BY
RID COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
TUSCO
FROM
WH/C8
FILE OR, CAD, CA/CPRP, C1/1571
17 Nov 55 IN 96000
SECRET 1622592
DIR CITE WAVE 7234 INGHURST ACTING
TYPIC MHSPAWN AMSPELL
REFS: A. DIR 52818
2. WAVE 7171
(IN92601)+
1. AMSPELL ISSUED 28 OCTOBER PRESS RELEASE TO EXPLOIT CHE
GUEVARA DISAPPARANCE AND ALLEGED HOUSE ARREST GUEVARA'S WIFE.
RELEASE REPORTS DOUSTS AND CONTROVERSY WITHIN OFFICIAL GOC CIRCLES
OVER GUEVARA'S FATE AND CLAINS GUEVARA'S WIFE PRACTICALLY UNDER HOUSE
ARREST. POUCHING COPY PRESS RELEASE. AMSPELL USED SAME REPORT OVER
RADIO. STATION HAS SEEN NO INDICATIONS REPORT PICKED UP BY PRESS.
2.
AMSPELL WILL CONTINE PLAY REPORTS ON GUEVARA AND FAMILY
WHEN PEGS ARE AVAILABLE. HOWEVER STATION DOES NOT PLAN
HAVE AMSPELL ENGAGE CAMPAIGN FOR RELEASE GUEVARA FAMILY AS THIS OUT OF
CHARACTER FOR AMSPELL GROUP. ORIGINAL PROP PLAY INITIATED UNILATERALLY
BY LIRCOK-I WAS CLEVER ATTEMPT TO PUBLICIZE GUEVARA CASE BUT NO SERIOUS
CONSIDERATION GIVEN TO AMSPELL CAMPAIGN.
3.
IF AMOTS DEVELOP USEFUL INFO PER REF A SUGGESTION STATION
WILL PURSUE FURTHER.
SECSET
14-00000
96000
PAGE 2
CFN 7284 52313 7171 AMSPELL 28 CHE GUEVARA GOC NO INDICATIONS
NOT PLAN LIROOK-1 NO SERIOUS A
BT
Amot
+ ARING
LOCATE
RELAZIV
14-00000
DISPATCH
το
Chief, WH
INFO
FROM
Chief of Station, JMWAVE
SUBJECT TYPIC/AMSPELL
Political Prisoners List
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
REFERENCE: WAVE 6425
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
XX
PROCESSING
ACTION
MARNED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED
MEADQUARTERS DESA
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
ABSTRACT
MICROFILM
Forwarded under separate cover is a list of political
prisoners in Cuban jails. The list was compiled by the AMSPELL
organization and contains the names and addresses of relatives who
are living in the United States.
Attachments:
Political Prisoners List, usc
Distribution:
3-WH/C, w/atts, usc
ΑΠ'D
Removed from Projecciopell
CS Classifications 14-15-14-26,
1 Atts.
Bore
Po1/19
CS COPY
fitabilit
Philip G. Elmard
ACCOM
CLASSIFICATION
DATE TYPED
19-124-26/3
19-124-2614
1 Nov 65
DATE DISPATCHED
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
NOV 4 1965
UFGA-23725
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
19-124-26/3
CROSS REFERENCE TO
SECRET
14-00000
:
NORBRE
A
ALMOINA PODLON, Carlos Francien
ARNAS BLANCO Rene de
ARMAS BLANCO Carlos de
ARENAS ANTO00, Alfredo Jeans
ALBA MORRELL, Bugenio
ALZJGARAY OLIVERA,
AMARO, Heriberto
ARGUELLES-SOSA ORO200,
ANTON ASPIRI Evelio Severino
ABAY GALINDO, Santiago .מת וייז
ALFONSO MARMOL, Ricardo many
ALONSO MORA, lio
AVILA ESTRADA, Maximo
ARENCINIA RIOS, FELIX
H
Cur
NOS
"
127-61
"
"
10
2/1
do
D
11 .53
3
10
ADENGO MARENTE, Rosue
ALVAREZ GONZALEZ, Kodesto Hileris
ALVAREZ CARARGA, Raul
B
BORROLLA POCETA, coberto
BARBITANTOS FRANDEZ, 4100
BERMUDEZ, Aniceto
4
64
-1-
POTINCIA
Habana
Oriente
ราย
חי
20
Sta. Clara
"
.20
R
10
10
20
Habana
Ribans
"
-11 62
2
54 53
72
H
"
20
10
127-6
74
13
Oriente
ארולא !!
רג
Matantes.
てい
BACALLAO Nicosio
BETANCOURT. 19, Lis
B
ISAAC. Abraham
RS-62
١٦
BARETRAS PR lestinn
BAR FITO LOLLE, Josefirn
62
"
19
BALBUENA CORR 1, 'e!!re
"
"
BLANCO SANJIAN, Mercedes
"
BARRETO MASON, Nicolas
"
11
3
२
BEQUER DIAZ, Radomero
"
14
1
BAJAVE ARRIGA, Martha
"
"
1
BYRON, Miquel
BATDA
afeel
Feb-51
529-63
,
1
0
COPADO FERNANDEZ, Antonis
405-6 0
CAOS PEREZ. Jorge
429-0
1
CA SUSO PE42, nricue
CABALLERO OFO?, Gustavo
CASTILLO FERRAL, Patrocinto
thrill
1.27--61
19
10
"
n
5
CARVAJAL RODRIיין %ייןlio
"
"
"
"
GACICEDO CAPALA Carlos
"
가
,
CISNEROS LIMA, Juan
CAY GISPERT, Raenl
CAY HERNANDEZ, Raoul
CALVO FORTE, Jose Luis
CERVERA AHANGO, Armenio
CASTRO GARCES, Panel
"
10 51
227-61
484 62
20
"
10
04. 62
"
11-41
10
"
"
CS COPY
SLAH. #! UFGA-23725
Kabina
"
"
Sta. Clara
..
Hah na
1
Sta Clara
Oriente
10
Ma anzas
Habang
"
Matanzas
30
(P12) 14-124-26/3
19-124-2614
;
!
!
14-00000
A
ALIOIJA PEDLOW, Carlos Prancisco
ARIAS BLANCO Rene da
ARMAS BLANCO Carlos t
48--00---
ALBA MORRELL, Bugento
Jorge de Armas (hermano) 2448 S.W. 3 3t. Miami
ALZUGARAY OLIVER, Rotondo Orlando Alzugaray (hermano)
AMARO, E oriberto
AROUELLES-30BA OROZCO,
ANTON ASPIRT
Berta Michelena 327 N.E. 1 Ave., Miami room1014 Pacific House
frelio Severinco
ABAY GALINDO, Santiago Julian
ALFONSO MARMOL, Micardo Osmany
ALONSO HORI, E110
AVILA STRADA, Maxim
ARENCIBIA RIOS, LL
ADEHOO MAREN, Rove
ALVAREZ GONZALEZ, Vedest #ilatio
ALVAREZ CARARGA, Raul
BORBOLLA VOOMBA, Roberto Aida Roqueta (tía) 209 NE Blvd., Gainesville, Fla.
BARRIENTOS PERHANDEZ, Alejandro
BERMUDEZ, Aniceto
BACALLAO NicA010
BETANCOURT AR-RII, Luis
६
JSAAC, Abraha
BARRERAS PERE". Celestino
BARREITO LO ELLE, JO
BALBUENA CORDA, Felipe
Nilia Balbuena (hermana
BLANCO SANJIVAN, Mercede Jorge de Armas Blanco (hijo) 2648. S.W. 3 St., Miani
BARRETO MASSON,
BEQUEN DIAZ, Roldomero
BASAVE JAMRIDA, Martha
BYRON, Miquel
• BASTIDA FELUWR, afael
COPADO FERNAND, Antonio Virgilio Sanchez Ocejo-334 S.W. 8 Ave., Miami (to)
CAOS PEREZ, Jorge
CA SUSO PEZ.Enricue Frank Casuso Pérez (hermano)c/o R. Ramos 1410 3.4.19Tour. Miami
CABALLERO OFOZ, Pustove Mercedes Ramirez Manila 1053 Urb. Sta. Rita, RioPiedras, P. Rico
CASTILLO FERROL. Patrocinto
CARBAJAL NODRI: ', Julio
JAGISEDO CAPAL, Carlos,
CISHEROS LIMA, Syan
Manuel A.del Valle(padrasto?) 1667 S.W. 10 St., Miami
•
ΟΛΥ ΟΙ ΡΕRT, Raoul Anita D. Silveira (prima) 1309 Brickell Ave. Miami
GAY HERNANDEZ, Raoul
CALVO FORTE, Joste Luis
10
CERVERA ARAÑOO, Armando Mercedes Quintana 327 N.E. 1 Ave. Miami
CASTRO GARCES, Rafael
14-00000
NOMBRE
(continuacion)
CEPERO LOPEZ, Pablo
CEPERO LOPEZ, Juan
CEPEPO LOPEZ,
emai
CRESPO GARCIA, Re
CEIP RION NORIEGA. مزم و
CRIADO GARCIA
Abel
CARDENEY FACENDA, OTE
CRISTO ZALEZ, Ferber del
CRISPO GONZALEZ, MASTER el
CASUSO CAB030, Brise
CABRERA CAT 2, balšo
-
DE CION
SA
SONY
Dec-2
461-62
010. 62
33-63
10
15
20
PROVINCIA
St. Clara
"
abane
Babana
EBIE
CANIÑO CORPIPIO, Art del amon
САЗАНАЗ PED 10508
פרות Jelio
CARMATE MIRANDA, Roberto
"
n
Abril-62
56-63
২
10
"
Rabana
CASTRO, Valentin
CASTILLO VERDECIA, Rando
CASTRO Broente
CERRALLO, Oscar
ج
D
DOMINGUEZ DIAZ, Josée
300-63
12
Habana
DURAN GALLARDO, FAUSTEE
DIERISME IR COUGTERA, Belo P.
Dic?
Habana
"
"
"
DIAZZA FJELLER TARIC, S
DIOS GONZALEZ, Chauss
Dic-62
61
19
11-63
5
12
Matanzas
Cientingos-S.Clara
DIEZ, Caraita
DIAZ, Pugo
DIAZ VIDAL, Julio
B
ELIAS 103, Heribertな
ESPINOSA VARONA, orele J.B.
Abril-61
Dic.62
127-61
37-63
3
5
"
ESTRADA MICHELENA, Jas
ESCARAMUZA PERHAMOND, Fastalena
Oriente
ii abina
P
FERNANDEZ MARTINEZ, La Sernabe
Abril
0
Habana
FERNANDEZ PLANA, Jos
FONSECA PUIG Rafael
Dic-59
51-6 1
Sta. Clara
FERBANDEZ PLANAS, Elas
Enero-ol
2761-61
Rabana
Abril-61
373-61
20
Habana
FERRER ORDONEZ, Juan
Abril-61
127-61
re
Oriente
"
PRAGELA HODRIGUEZ,
FONSECA TORRES, Benite
FERRERA ALEMAN Roberto
FLEXAS GOMEZ, George Lesa
FERNANDEZ FUENTES, Nazio
FERNANDEZ GALIENSS, Sirador
FERNANDEZ REYES
FB HERNANDEZ, Miguel se la
FE DELGADO, Carlos ie la
Dic-61
1108-01
12
Sept
478-62
12
Dic.
RA-62
20
Vic-62
Dic-62
4-63
33-63
20
"
"
29
"
(sique pas 3)
n
Matanzas
Hoaana
Habana.
Sta. Clara
Habann
14-00000
HORSRE
(oon invasion)
CEPERO LOPEZ, Pablo
CEPERO LOPEZ, Juan Galberto
CEFERO LOPEZ, Reinaldo
CRISPO GARCIA, Beginn
CENT RION NOMIESA, Antonio miquel
CRIADO GA CIA, Aho
CARDEST FACZNA, Omar
CRISTO ZALEZ, Heriberto def
CRISTO GONZALEZ, Merlardo del
CASCA330, Enrique Frank Casuso Pérez (2110)c/o R. Razos 1410 5.4.19.Perr.Miami
CABRERA AVT 7, Ubaldo
CARINO COPIPIC, An erici del Carmen
CASATES PED:03 Bruno Sulro
CANEVATE MIDON, Roberto
CASTRO, Valentin
CASTILLO VEND CIA, Rasoindo
CASTRO Froente
CERRALLO, Oвзаг
D
DOMINGUE? DIAZ, J
DURAN JALLA10
DIERKSME IRA, GenZALO Y۰
DIAZBARAVELLES CARIO, Sar.
DIOR OONZALY, Chaud
DIEZ, Carmita
DIAZ-Hugo
DIAZ VIDAL,
•
ELIAS RTOS, Herthemi
ESPINOBA VA ONA, Regel 10 J.b.
ESTRADA MICHELENA, er
Berta Michelera(:(a)327 ..... 1 ave.r-1014 PacificHouse
ESCARAMUZA PETAMO, Magdalena
Miami
i
P
Enilia da., Lucía, y Limo Sernabé Fernández Luzarra
FERNANDEZ MARDI, Lino Bernabe 3 aljos 1101 ... 26 1821 633-1035
FERNANDEZ PLANA, Jos..
FERNANDEZ PLANAS, V8 Conchita Fiez. Paana,hermana, 1210 Taft St.Apt.208
PONSECA PUTO afael
arlington, Va.
PERRER ORDONEZ, Ja Francisco