104-10229-10097

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ORIG: H.F.SWENSON:sm
UNIT: TFW/SA
EXT: 7287
DATE: 14 JANUARY 1963

TO: SAN JOSE (INFO) JMWAVE
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: TFW 10
INFO: DDP, CI, CI/OPS, FI, WH 7, S/C

TO: SJOS INFO WAVE
GYROSE

REF: A. SJOS 5487 NOT SENT WAVE (IN 48782)
B. SJOS 5486 NOT SENT WAVE (IN 48778)

1. PBRUMEN EXILES MIAMI DRAFTED TWO POLICE PROPOSALS
NEITHER OF WHICH REALISTIC AND NEITHER DISCUSSED OFFICIALLY WITH
KUBARK. ORGANIZATION OF STANDBY PBRUNEN SECURITY FORCES IMPORTANT
BUT NOT URGENT UNTIL MATTER DISCUSSED OFFICIALLY AND FEASIBLE PLANS
MADE. THEREFORE DO NOT WISH ENCOURAGE FURTHER PLANS WHICH MAY
COMPLICATE ORDERLY DEVELOPMENT AND BURN ASSETS.

2. DESPITE ABOVE HQS INTERESTED ASSESSING POTENTIAL
ANY ASSET IN PBRUMEN FOR INFO COLLECTION. REQUEST SJOS ADVISE
DETAILS IDEN REF B ACCESS TO PEOPLE OR DATA OF OPS OR INTEL VALUE,
HIS SECURITY, COMMO AND TENTATIVE CONTACT PLAN.

(END OF MESSAGE)

J.C.KING
C/WII

RELEASING OFFICE: 14.6
17!!/3/COSTA RICA
C/MI/3

COORDINATING OFFICERS:
SECRET

E.A.MARELIUS
C/TFG/FI

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

---

ORIG: II.F.SWENSON:sm
UNIT: TFW/SA
EXT: 7287
DATE: 14 JANUARY 1963

TO: JLWAVE
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: TFW 10
INFO: DOP, CI, CI/OPS, FI, WH 7, S/C

TO: WAVE
REF: DIR 10303

IDEN REF B MANUEL PEREZ BORROTO EX-BATISTA POLICE
CAPTAIN NOW CIENFUEGOS.

(END OF MESSAGE)

WH/3/COSTA RICA
C/WH/3

J.C.KING
C/WHD

RELEASING OFFICER: 14.6

COORDINATING OFFICERS:
SECRET

E.A.MARELIUS
C/TFW/FI

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
