104-10180-10235 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT TO: UFG-W-642 dated 19 OCT 1961
SUBJECT: Cover for Eubject

1. Fursuant to your requirement for status cover for
Subject, the following devised cover has been developed. Subject
will be employed as of 1 November 1981, by Roberts Electronic 24
(and Engineering Service), a devised cover firm engaged in providing
consulting services in the field of electronics and electrical
instruments. His immediate position will be that of consultant
assigned to the Southeastern part of the United States. This
cover was selected in view of Subject's past employment where
he represented various electrical suppliers.

24
2. Roberts Electronic and Engineering Service is located
at 4010 Grengyle Avenue, Baltimore 15, Maryland) telephone
(Rogers 4-6770.) This is a fully backstopped cover device which
will list Subject as one of its employees thereby furnishing a
credit and employment referenco for him. His payments will be
made to him by bank transfer as in the past.

3. It should be pointed out to Subject that he will receive
a U.S. Treasury form 1099 at the end of each taxable year, showing
(Roberts) as his source of income. Therefore, it is incumbent on
Subject to file an overt tax return listing himself as an inde-

24
pendent contractor with (Roberts), thereby explaining why taxes
were not withheld.

24

4. You are requested to advise Headquarters when this
cover arrangement is no longer needed, so that proper backstopping
can be effected.

GIPN
