1104-10075-10225
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
6

DIRECTOR

C/SAS 5

TION. DDP, ADDP, D/OC 2, VR

SECRET 2722402

DIP CITE WAVE 8225
IN 69411
PYPATTYPIC ARPANTY FEDGUP COMMO
REFS: A. WAVE 8064 (IN 66850)
2. PAVE 897! (IN 66867)
C. WAVE 8272 (IN 66868)
D. WAVE 8074 (W 66883)
E. WAVE R135 (₩ 67242)
F. WAVE 8196 (IN 67216)
F. WAVE 8126 (IN 67381)

1. FOL IS TRANSLATION OF REFS A THRU
Α. 43. ENTERING DIRECTLY THE PLACE. TEODORO IS IN CHAR OF
TUE VIGILANCE OF KARAT ONE. ARLE, WHO IS ANIRAL'S PAN, IS IN CHARGE OF
MAPAT TWO. DOCTOR JIVERES IS IN CHAPE OF THE INTELLIGENCE FOR KARAT
ONE. THIS YAN OR. JITENES CORKED CITY PANCHO VILLA IN KERE BEFORE.
ACULES.

46. HTO. THESE ARE DATA ON DAVID'S PAN AND THEDR
FUNCTIONS. DATA IN EL BALLDOZER. SIGUEL SUAREZ MERKENDEZ. 30 YEARS
20. B09N I 1933. UE DO NOT HAVE THE DAY AND PONGK SON OF PATED A
JOSEFA. WORKS IN THE LATER SUPPLY LIKE OF BOCA DEL CALAFRE. IS PARA ILD
AND HAS & CHILDREN. LIVES ON THE STACY OF 2008

C. WILL WORK

11044

14-00000
CLASSIFIED

IN 69411 PAGE 2
I RECEPTIONS. DATA ON EL PIRATA. JOSE TE FRANA CARMONA. ALIAS EL
NING. IF OWNER OF THE 14 POST BOAT WITH A 6 HORSE POWER NOTOR WHO
VILL VPKIN RECEPTIONS. 93 YEARS OLD. SORN IN 90CA PALAFRE ON 19
APCS. TAPR LED AND HAS A CHILDREN. FISHERPAN. CONTINUES.
..BON 67 ANDR20 AND ALTA TRACIA. LIVES IN ROCA DE ALAPRE.
THE NAME OF HIS BOAT IS "LA CIVISTA. DATA ONE VIGILANTE. THIS MA
(ales rend TORRADO)
CIVES HIS HOUSE TO LOCATE THE RADIO OPERATOR. ROBERTO ROTTADO CACERES.
37 YEARS OLD. FORN ON 19 SEPTEMBER 16, SON OF HERMINIO AND MARIETA.
LIVES ON THE SANTA ROSA FARP ON THE HIGHWAY OF SAN JUAN DEL GALAPPE
KILOVETER. INAL LATER SEND THE COORDINATES. IS A TAXI DRIVER.
DATA ON ELPATRICIA. HIS SAFE KOUSE. ESTEBAN SUAREZ ROJAS. 56 YEARS
OLD. SORN OF 26 DECEMBER 1937. SON OF PABLO AND ISABELA. MARRIED
AND HAS CHILDREN. LIVES IN LA PALMA FARM. CONTINUES.
D. 46. FARMER. I WILL LATER SEND YOU THE EXACT LOCATION BY
CODIVATEs SEID SET OF RAPS ON COLIERI. RECEIVED YOUR MESSAGE 82.
ACULES.

Σ. 47. στο YOU SHOULD WARN SAULO THE GREAT DANGER ARTACAN
IS IN IF HE REVEALS ANYTHING ON THE TYPE OF WORK THAT WAS ENTRUSTED TO
HI IN CURA DE VILL NOT USE POSITION COT OPRA ACAIN. WE ARE AVAITING
FD DUS FARCHO VILLA IF HE HAS RETRIEVED CACKE NORTE THREE.
PLACIDO MAZED NOTE FOUR THE CACHE YOU TOLD HIS WAS LOCATED OFRONT
כוח PLIS THIS AS BEEN FOUND DY A TIMER UNO DELIVERED ALL
TOMTO THE AWIA IRECEIVED YOUR MESSAGE
, TAPE IS ROTRING SERIOUS IN PY GAL RIEIDS'S LETTER.
UR

.Th.. KATION IS DAT FD 11 . LAST YEAR

14-00000
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN PAGE
FACTOEY. THERE A PUBLIC DEMONSTRATION WAS GIVEN IN FOLLOWING THE TRAIL
AND FIDING A MAN THROUGH OBSTACLES, SUCH AS SUGAR CANE, WEEDS, AND SO
OV. THESE ANIMALS APE NOW IN SANTIAGO DE LAS VEGAS. SOURCE OF
ISPLATION, OWNER OF FARY ADJACENT TO THE TOLEDO SUGAR FACTORY.
TEODOPO INFORMED. PEPORTED BY ΑΝΤΟΝΙΟ ON 15 NOVEMBER. A QUILES.
50 OTTO. RECEIVED MESSAGE NUMBER 87. AQUILES.

WAVE COMMENTS: RE REF. A. KARAT ONE AND TWO REFER TO OPERATION
NO WAVE TRACES SURUS REF R. AND REF C. REF E. SAULO REFUGEE
later rend 73 DRIJ
EXICO, COTORPA IS COBRA 13 DPP.
SECPET
