# UNCLASSIFIED
104-10308-10189 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
OUTGOING

SECRET

Charge: Classification Control: ROUTINE
Date: 11 JULY 63
DIST: 1 - SIG
CHIRON
1- INDEVCUT 3 OPS

20-18 20-10 20-11
ZURC INFO BERN CITE ENVA] CN

DOMARK FROM MIDDAUGH

RYBAT INDEVOUT 301

1. AS PART OF NEW G-2 COOPTED STATUS SUBJ MUST PROVIDE BOOKS
ON ESPIONAGE. HE HAS SENT SUCH AS HE AND WE HAVE ACCESS TO IN LOCAL
SHOPS AND HAS URGENT NEED TO SEND MORE VERY SOON. WE PLANNING ASK
LONDON MAKE EXHAUSTIVE PURCHASE BUT IN MEANTIME HAVE NEED PASS HIM
CIRCA TEN FOR IMMEDIATE POSTING TO

2. CAN YOU AT EARLY POINT RANSACK ZURC BOOKSTORES FOR ANY TYPE
OF WORK ON ESPIONAGE OR COUNTER ESPIONAGE OF LITERALLY ANY COUNTRY.
WORKS CAN INCIADE HISTORIC ITEMS LIKE WORLD WAR I BLACK ROOM, WORLD
WAR II LIKE BREAKING OF JAPANESE CODE, OPERATION NORTH POLE IN
HOLLAND, AND WHAT HAVE YOU, AS WELL AS WORKS BY COMMUNIST DEFECTORS
AND THE NEWER CROP OF ESPIONAGE STUDIES. THEY MUST BE IN ENGLISH
BOR FRENCH.

3. BOOKS HE HAS ALREADY SENT INCLUDE: RESEAU DE SPIONS,
L'HISTOIRE DE GESTAPO, CIA, MI 5, SECRET WAR, MANUEL DE ESPIONS, HER
MAJESTY'S SECRET SERVICE, TREASON IN TWENTIETH CENTURY, AND SEVERAL
UNIDENTIFIED BOOKS ON FASCISM.

4. WOULD APPRECIATE PHONE CALL AS SOON AS YOU KNOW HOW MANY BOOKS
YOU CAN GET. MAIL BOOKS COMMERCIALLY TO MIDDAUGH PRIVATE ADDRESS.
ORIG: MIDDAUGH RELEASEDON FUMARDS COPY IS

Classification PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED".
Exclufar Single-address messages to the Department can be diverted to rouch (appropriate to the classification of the message) without
retyping Type "By Pouch" after the address, omit the serial number, and pouchs in envelope marked "For DC/T".
COLATE 200
declassification
68.6.17

8/BR
