1400000

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ROUTINGAD RECORD SHEET

PRIOR TO FILING
INSTRUCTIONS
TO: ACTION BRANCH

Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap
and forward to RID.
If file no. and title shown are not proper,
insert proper file no. below and forward
document to RID/AN.

Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records
significant action taken or comments requir-
ing preservation.
PROPER FILE NO.
FROM:
4-63
RID/
DATE
TO
ROOM
NO.
OFFICER'S
INITIALS
RECEIVED FORWARDED

C/20/13-1
17

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE
COMMENTS

MR. CBER-CIOP/00
Ito 4. of possible
interest toujou

MR.TUTH - DO/I/B/-1H19
I file Mask dygouts

Shichy
(

(

(

(

(

(

(

(

(

(

(

(

(

(

(

(

(
TRACE
REQUEST
FILE TITLE
ABSTRACT
INDEX
FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)
DATE MICROFILMED
DOCUMENT DATE
DOCUMENT NUMBER
11 Octo
UWCA 03510

SECRET
(40)

14-00000

C/D/I
PROCESSING ACTION
TO
MFO.
FROM
SUBJECT
DISPATCH
Chief, DO/I
Chief of Base, Washington
WOMUSE
"Peace" Demonstrations
CLASSIFICATION
RYBAT/SECRET

MARKED FOR INDEXING
X
NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM
ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES
DIRECTOR 39871

1. Enclosed for Headquarters information are copies of
literature mailed by the Catholic Association for Inter-
national Peace (CAIP) to its members (attachments 1, 2 and 3)
concerning "Negotiation Now!"

2. Also enclosed as of possible interest are copies of
CAIP materials (attachments 3, 4 and 5) concerning its 40th
Annual Conference, scheduled for October 27 - 29, the theme of
which is "Selective Conscientious Objection in an Age of
Conflict." The conference is to be held at Dunbarton College
of Holy Cross, 2935 Upton Street N.W., Washington, D. C.

3. The above items were received by Oliver H. CORBUSTON
who had joined the CAIP for cover purposes in the course of a
previous assignment. Attachments 1, 2 and 3 are forwarded in
response to reference.

Attachments: As stated.

Liver H. Carlstein

Oliver H. CORBUSTON

Distribution:
3 - Chief, DO/I w/atts
1 - Chief, DO W/o att

1528

CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UWCA-3510
CS COPY
BODY DATE
1981 1997
11 October 1967

CLASSIFICATION
HQS FILE NUMBER
RYBAT/SECRET
