14-00000
104-10216-10338
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

W
ONG. W. INWRIGHT/41
LANT/C/PI/TC
EXT. 6153
DATE. 24/MARCH/1965

TO : PARIS
FROM : DIRECTOR
CONF: Oclwne 5
INFO: 200 FLEUR; OOP, AinDD, C/WE 3, C/CI:

TO PRITY PARI
DESENSITIZED
INFO
CITE DER
CAT PERUMEN UNSNAFU AMLASH AMWHIP 95504
REF: PARI 9995 (IN 29053)*

1. DO NOT BELIEVE UNSKAPU/9 FIRING IN ITSELF A HAZARD TO
AMLASH/1. HOWEVER, DO FEEL IT NECESSARY ATTEMPT DETERMINE BACKGROUND
TO UNSNAFU/19 STATEMENT THAT U/9 WAS "DIRTY KUBARK AGENT", I.E.
WAS THIS JUST HEATED UNCOMPLIMENTARY EPITHET OR WAS IT BASED ON DSE
KNOWLEDGE MADE AVAILABLE TO U/19. IN EITHER CASE, BELIEVE IT MERITS
RELAY TO ANLASH/1. SUGGEST FOLLOWING: WHEN AMWHIP/1 ARRIVES PARI IN
HEAR FUTURE, ASK HIN ATTEMPT WITH GREAT CAUTION DETERMINE IMPLICATIONS
U/19 ABOVE ACCUSATION. THEN HAVE HIM CALL HIS JEWELER FRIEND IN
HAVANA, JOSE IGLESIAS, OSTENSIBLY ON BUSINESS MATTER AS COVER, AND
RELAY PERTINENT DETAILS OF U/9 INCIDENT AS ROUTINE FRIENDLY GOSSIP.
AMTHIP/1 SHOULD HAVE NO PROBLEM INSURING THAT MUTUAL FRIEND IGLESIAS
WILL RELAY THE NEWS POSTHASTE TO ANLASH/1. BELIEVE THIS SECURE ENOUGH
AND EMINENTLY FASTER AND MORE CERTAIN THAN S/W LETTER.

2. IF AMTHIP/1 FEELS THIS METHOD UNSAFE AT THIS TIMES ANY REASON,
ADVISE SOONEST. XXXXXSOC

3. PLS KEEP HQS CURRENT ALL ASPECTS THIS MATTER.

RELEASING OFFICE
END OF HESSAGE
24-20
SECRETARYBAT
COPY
GROUP 1
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
OFFICE
Copy No

14-00000
JUG
EXT
DATE
TO .
MESSAGE FORM
SECRET/RYBAT
ORENGRE NO
FROM DRECTOR
CON
INFO
10
PAGE TWO
INFO
CITE DER
95504
*WH/C/Comment: UNSNAFU/19 fired in row with UNSNAFU/9. Requested
guidance.

THOMAS F. THIELE
C/WE/INT
OFFICER
C/WH/C/FI
WB/S/C
WE/3
R.P()
WHICICHIPA C.de

POUR 1.
DESPOND FITZGERALD,
C/WH
SECRET/RYBAR
REPRODUCT BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFI NIS PROHIBITED.
ΔΟΤΗΣΕΤICATION
Copy No
