2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

15 June 1964

AMBIOCY-1

SYNOPSIS

Per his request, 2nd Lt. Oliverio
Antonio TOMEU Vasallo was recontacted
on 8 June 64 at his place of resid-
ence. He provided additional details
on Carlos and Ana Gloria de VARONA,
and identified Osiel GONZALEZ and one
"COCO" as possible leads to Jose
LLANUSA Sobel.

CONTACT REPORT

SUBJECT: Recontact of Oliverio A. TOMEU Vasallo. (201-283306)

1. At 1730 hours, 8 June 64, the undersigned was advised
at his residence that a Mr. TOMEU (Subject) had called the
security number given hin (351-6161) and left the message that
he would like to talk again with Paul Stroud (the undersigned)
anytime after 1800 hours, 8 June.

2. Upon arriving at TOMEU's apartment (Apt. 303, 1038
Valer Place SR, High Point Apartment House, Washington, D. C.).
1830 hours, 8 June, TOMEU indicated to his two daughters he would
like to have some privacy and they and his wife, Caridad, left
the apartment.

3. TOMEU apologized for not having recalled the name
"de VARONA" as that of Ans Gloria de VARONA. He reiterated
that, while in hiding to escape capture by the Cuban Government
subsequent to his infiltration, he knew only the first names of
the persons with whom he came in contact, but then added he knew
Ana Gloria de VARONA, in whose house he was hiding, because she
was the sister of Carlos de VARONA, one of his infiltration team
members. (This Carlos de VARONA may be identical with one
Carlos Manuel de VARONA Segura, 201-289985; or one Carlos Arturo
VARONA Arjona, 201-283208.)

4. On several occarions, according to TOMEU, he was seated
at the table in Ana's house with several other people. One of
these individuals, known to TOMEU caly as "COCO," was described
as the secretary to Jose LLANUSA Gobel. There was not, however,
any discussions in which TOMEU recalls LLANUSA or his political
armpathies having been discussed. According to TOMEU's recollection it was "COCO" who was associated with LLANUSA, and he
vas zot svare of any relationship between AER and LLANUSA
Although Tomba had no information as to what finally happened
to Carlos de VARONA, his infiltration team mate, he suggested
that if Carlos or Ann vero available they may be able to
identify Cooc and provide data on his acceseability for
contact.

5. One Catel CORALES, former Chief of the Havana Fire
Department, vas identified by TOKKU as another possible lead

SECRET

-2-

vho vould know LLANUSA. TOMEU affirmed Osiel was previously
with NENOTO Gutierrez in the Second Front of Escaahray. Osiel
vas under asylum in the Brazilian babassy (sic, Argentine
Inbassy?), when TOMEU gained political asylum. When Osiel
finally received his safe conduct from the imbassy, he vent
to Puerto Rico and, TOMEU postulates that Osiel is now again
with NENOTO in either the United States or Puerto Rico.

6. Tvo snap shots (to be returned) were provided by
TOMEU of himself and six other individuals who were in asylum
at the same tine. Be identified these, in the photograph in
which Monsignor Eduardo DOZA Kasvidal is seated, ss, from
left to right: Manuel VILLAKANAN, Oliverio TONKU, Nils DIAZ
(believed to be in US), Publio RUIZ (US), Jorge Del VALLE
(Nex?), and Owiel GONZALEZ (US or Puerto Rico?).

7. Upon completing the debriefing, Stroud and TOMEU
"exchanged small talk" for a while until TOMEU finally stated
that he still wished there was something more he could do to
help free Cube, and asked "What do you think I should do?"
Stroud replied that no person could really make that type of
decision for another individual, and countered by asking TOMEU
what alternatives he had in mind, other than remaining in the
18 Army as a career military officer.

8. TOMEU replied that, of course, he was once an
agriculturalist, but that there were few job opportunities in
which he could apply his past experience. His sister had also
asked him if he felt he and his family would want to live with
bar in Spain or Mexico, but he didn't think too much of this
idea. He then stated that he had been asked by Manuel ARTINE
to take a job as an instructor. Without indicating any
sssociation of even awareness of ARTIME's activities, or of
ANTINE's contact with TOMEU (as indicated in TOMEU's 201),
PONKU was asked what he thought of ARTIME's proposition.
TOMEU stated that he would no longer follow any man as
individual or as a leader, because a man's ideals, outlook.
and objectives change with time. For example, the people of
Cuba followed Fidel because of the ideals he advocated. When
Fidel took over,
his accomplishments gradually became qsreg
Gifferent from the ideals he had espoused. TOMEU continued
by saying he would "no longer follow a man, One could only
trust his ideals or an organization which followed those
ideals, since a good organization would be lons likely of
being controlled by a single man," When saked for an example
of the type of organization he had in mind, TOMEU replied he
was most favorably inclined towards the ideals and goals of
the JURE. (The JURE or JRC is an organization crested by
Manolo RAY Rivero around a nucleus of former 26 July Movement
Leaders, Bee memo and attachment dated 23 July 1063 from Joha
Bugh Crinning, Coordinator of Cuban Affairs, ARA, Departmens
of State in TOMKU's 201-283206.)

SECRET

9. It should, perhaps, be noted here that in en informal
exchange with Mrs. Donald WEBSTER, TOKEU's supervisor at the
Defense Language Institute, Anacostia Naval Annex, 4 June 64,
Kra, VEBSTER volunteered the information that "all of the other
'Brigade students here' have told me they think very highly
of TOMEU, and that he is a very brave nan, because be and his
family vere very vealthy in Cuba and he gave it all up to go
into exile and fight the Castro Regine."

WR/SA/BO/X
C. PAUL PLUMB, JR.
