14-00000-
104-10166-10158

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: DAVIS, THWAS. E.
50-1987

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODI AL UNIT/LOCATION: CI/CA (ARCHIVES)
ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
Jeune LESUE WIZELMAN heshi Wigelman
JAMES KELL
Fly Dan Kelly.
KELLY

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

14-00000
pdt 29 Jan 58

CISCA FILE NO.
50-1987

TOUE NAME
DAVIS, Thomas E.

1084
PRO 11
GREEN
LIST
RI
TRACES

SECRET
When Pii: 09
APPROVAL WORK RECORD
SECLD: MY Office FILE NO.
67378
SUBJECT (FILL IN ONE COLT)
CRYPTON
NAME CHECK INVESTIGATIVE RECORD
OPS & DIV
TRACES
CHECEIVI INITIAL DATE
P.0.4
٥.٨.
P.C.S.A.
PIELD
TRACES
INDICES
PROP. APP.

INDICES
S.O. IN
VESTIGATION
COMMENTS

CASE OFFICER
FORM N 1268
MAY 04
COMMENTS
SECRET

PSEUDONT
ISSUED
CHECE Dale
ی شود

---

14-00000

TO
:

ECRET
Filled 10
REQUEST FOR PRESENT OPERATIONAL
STATHS OF SUBJECT
610 15
C1/04 FILE 10.

FROM : Chief, CI/Operational Approval and Support Division

SUBJECT:
Thomas E. DAVIS

1. A review of the files of CI/OA is being made for the purpose of retiring files
on covert personnel who:

4 No longer are being used;

(b) Do not satisfy the requirements for operational approval;
:
(a) Are of no further interest to the office of original request.

2. CI/OA records indicate the subjest has been of interest to you
for: MapPING WORK.
since 1952
☑ operational use...

informational purposes

3. It is requested that you notify CI/OA of the present operational status of
subject, using the bottom of this form for your comment.

4. If no answer is received from you within 30 days, CI/OA will assume that you
are no longer interested in the subject and will retire the file without further
notification to you.
DAM NO.
L
JUN 68
700
COMMENTS FROM OFF ICE OF ORIGIN

initial
STRIBUTION ORIGINAL & TO ADDRESSER TO CI/OA PILE
SECRET

---

14-00000
TO
:

CRET
REQUEST FOR PRESENT OPERATIONAL
STATUS OF SUBJECT
-
DATE
C1/04

FROM: Chief, CI/Operational Approval and Support Division

SUBJECT:

1. A review of the files of CI/OA is being made for the purpose of retiring files
on covert personnel who:

No longer are being used;

(b). Do not satisfy the requirements for operational approval;

(c) Are of no further interest to the office of original request.

3. CI/OA records indicate the subject has been of interest to you
for:
since

Operational use

informational purposes

3. It is requested that you notify CI/OA of the present operational status of
subject, using the bottom of this form for your comment.

4. If no answer is received from you within 30 days, CI/OA will assume that you
are no longer interested in the subject and will retire the file without further
notification to you.
L

nuw
COMMENTS FROM OFFICE OF ORIGIN
New Query sent Coveя
700

INITIACE-
DISTRIBUTIONI ORIGINAL & TO ADDRESSER TO CI/GA PILI
SECRET
(80)

---

14-00000

SECRET
(Theo Failed le)

REQUEST FOR PRESENT OPERATIONAL
STATUS OF SUBJECT
Date
6 Man 156
so 1987
CI/ON FILE NO.
TO

FROM
:
: Chief, CI/Operational Approval and Support Division

SUBJECT:
Thomas E. DAVIS

1. A review of the files of CI/QA is being made for the purpose of retiring files
on covert personnel who:

(a) No longer are being used;

(b) Do not satisfy the requirements for operational approval;

(c) Are of no further interest to the office of original request.

2. CI/OA records indicate the subject has been of interest to you
since 1952
operational use
informational purposes
for: MapPING WORM

3. It is requested that you notify CI/OA of the present operational status of
subject, using the bottom of this form for your comment.

4. If no answer is received from you within 30 days, CI/OA will assume that you
are no longer interested in the subject and will retire the file without further
notification to you.

COMMENTS FROM OFFICE OF ORIGIN
Send querry to
31
I Cover
0700

INITIALO
DISTRIBUTION ORIGINAL & TO ADDRESS: 170 CE/OA PILS
SECRET
1001

---

14-00000
L
SECURITY INFORMATION
SECRET

T. E. D.
#67378

8 February 1952

The files of G-2, Department of the Army, were checked in Subject's name
on 5 February 1952. A file in the name of Thomas Edgar
and disclosed the following information:
was reviewed

In a letter to the Commanding General, 2nd Army, Fort George G. Meade, Mary-
land fron Intelligence Division, General Staff, U. S. Army, Washington, D. C.,
dated 25 May 1969, the Investigations Section states that information has been
received from the Plans and Operations Division, General Staff, U. S. Army,
liaison agency with the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, for the Department of the
Army, that, Thomas Edgar was granted "Q" clearance on 2 February 1949.
The AEC clearance number if NT 6514.

The above information was predicated upon an L/S from 2nd Arzy, to Director
of Intelligence, requesting verification of "Q" clearance regarding above individ-
ual.

File further reflects that the FBI conducted investigations on 18 January
1949 at Cincinnati, Ohio and 12 January 1949 at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania regard-
ing Subject.

LIETO DELICE
LEB S2 8:28 V4.25
CHICVCO
SECRET

---

14-00000
L
Case No: 67378

SYNOPSIS:
SECURITY KEEZMATION
SECRET

8 April 1952

SUBJECT presently resides at 2596 Neil Avenue and not at
1596. He is married, has a son, about 25 years of age. SUBJECT
attended Ohio State University from 1935 to 1939, receiving a
B.S.C. degree. He was formerly employed as a garage mechanic
in Hilliard, Chio and is presently Assistant Director of a fie-
search Foundation at the Ohio State University. Neighborhood...
investigation was extremely favorable, nothing of a derogatory
nature was developed. Credit favorable and Police negative.
SUBJECT reportedly investigated by the Federal Bureau of In
vestigation.

This data is property of lespeoflon and Security Office, to be se
turned when sucioct is no longer covertly uand. Its existence of
contents must not be disclosed except to CIA Stati room
rectly concerned
SECRET

---

14-00000
L
SCORM COELEN
SECRET

Case No: 67378

BIRTH AND CITIZENSHIP:
At Columbus, Ohio:

8 April 1952

According to the records of the Registrars Office, Ohio
State University, SUBJECT was born in wellston, Chio during
January 1903.

EDUCATION:
At Columbus, Ohios

The records of the Registrars Office, Ohio State University
on 21 February 1952, revealed that SUBJECT was a student from
1935 to 1939, at which time he graduated with a B.S.C. degree.

EMPLOYMENT:
At Columbus, Chios

On 7 February 1952, the records of the Chio Bureau of
Credits revealed that SUBJECT is presently the Assistant Direc
tor of the Research Foundation of the Ohio State University. Upon
graduation from O.S.U., or shortly thereafter in December 1939,
SUBJECT was employed by the university as Assistant Fraternity
Auditor. He later noved from that position to that of Assistant
Director in 1946. Prior to the time, he was employed as a mech
anic in Arch Alder's Chevrolet Garage, Hilliards, Ohio.

KIGHBORHOOD:
At Columbus, Ohio:

On 2 April 1952, it was determined that SUBJECT resides in
an apartment building located at 2596 Neil Anemus, near the uni-
versity. Mrs Mac OWEN, Apt. ". 2596 Neil Avenue, stated that
she has known the SUBJECT and his wife since the time of their
moving in the building, which was about three years ago. She
described them as Foot subatsial people and added that SUB-
JECT is the Assistant Director of the Research Foundation, Chio
State University. He is most capable, likeable and respectable
zan and enjoys a fine reputation in the building and in the
neighborhood generally. She further stated that the FEI has i
vestigated hin several years ago, apparently in connection with
•his job at the Foundation. She described SUBJECT and his wife so
SECRET

---

14-00000
L
Case No: 67378

SECRET

8 April 1952

Supper aiddle class with one son, about twenty-five years of age
who is married and resides out of Ohio, although he is presently
staying with his folks because his wife is in a hospital in
Columbus with their newly arrived baby. Informant stated that she
knew nothing but good relative to SUBJECT and his family and
that he is truly a patriotic American.

On 2 April 1952, Mrs Thomas REEDER, Apt. "5", 2506 Neil
Avenue, stated that she has known SUBJECT and his wife as neigh-
bors and that they are fine people, respected in the community
and are conservative in their living and habits. They have one
son, Ed, who is precntly staying with them. SUBJECT, according
to informant, is "homey" and does not drink or have any bad
habits to her knowledge. She considere him a one-hungred per-
cent American.
:
On 2 April 1952, Mrs. P.W. HOMSHER, Apt. "C", 2590 Neil
Avenue, stated that she has been acquainted with the SUBJECT and
his wife for about a year as neighbors. She knew little about
than except that they are nice people and well thought of in
the neighborhood, They are quiet, do not engage in many social
activities. Informant confirmed SUBJECT's employment and added
that she knew of nothing of a derogatory nature regarding the
SUBJECT or his family.

Mrs John R. SHOWBALL, Apt. "A", 2596 Neil Avenue, stated that
she has known SUBJECT and his wife just three years or since the
time they moved into the building, three years ago this month.e
She stated that she liked than very much and knew of no finer
people. They are respected in the community and are quiet and con-
servative. SUBJECT neither drinks or carouses and is a "hombody",
except that he plays a great deal of golf with her husband. In-
formant stated that SUBJECT's son Ed is presently with SUBJECT
coming here from West Virginia for the arrival of their newborn
youngster. She added that SUBJECT has a fine poistion with the
Research Foundation as Assistant Director, and is a thorough
American.

REFERENCES:
At Columbus, Ohio:

On 3 April 1952, Mrs Harvey BROWER, 2268 Summit Street,
stated that she purchased the premises on which she now resides,
from SUBJECT about twelve years ago and although she did not know
the ----- family except for the real-estate transaction, she had
heard many good things about them from neighbors that used to liw
SECRET

---

14-00000
L
Case No: 67378

SECRET

8 April 1952

in this part of the community. She stated that everyone seemed
to have a good word for both SUBEJET and his wife and she knew
of nothing derogatory in the regard. She added that yrs John
MONROE, 2262 Sumit Street, kaew the SUBJECT and his wife,

On 3 April 1952, Mrs John MONROE, was interviewed and stated
that she had known the SUBJECT's wife since they were younsters
living in Hilliard, Ohio and that she has known SUBJECT since he
and his wife married nearly thirty years ago. The 's vere
wonderful people and well thought of by everyone. SUBJECT was for
nerly employed by Arch Alder's Chevrolet Gagage in Hilliard, Ohio
after which he returned to Ohio State University. He was later en-
ployed by O.S.U. in some capatity, becoming Assistant Director of
the Research Foundation. Informant suggested another person that
was acquainted with the -----18, Mrs Harry MYERS, 6500 Dublin
Road, north of Columbus, Ohio.

On 3 April 1952, Mrs Harry MYERS, was interviewed and stated
that she had known the ----- and that they were very close
friends. She knew of nothing derogatory regarding SUBJECT and
stated that she considered the ----- family as the highest type
of people. SUBJECT's son, Ed, is engaged in some type of Engin
eering work, believed to be in Detroit, Michigan

AGENTS NOTE:

It was determined that Arch Adler, SUBJECT's former employer.
and personally known to the writer, is presently confined to a
hospital and not available for interview.

Norman ARMENTROUT, Manager, Alder's Garage, Hilliard, Ohio
stated that SUBJECT was the best mechanic they had ever had in
the garage. Informant stated that he has heard Mr. Adler make
this statement many times since SUBJECT left in 1937. He further
stated that SUBJECT and his wife had a fine reputation and were
patriotic Americans. Informant had attended high school with
SUBJECT's son Ed, whom he described as a first rate fellow, who
displayed that he came from good people.

CREDIT AND CREDIT REFERENCES
At Columbus, Ohios

The records of the Ohio Credit Bureau, 83 S. 4th Street,
examined on 7 February 1952, revealed that SUBJECT arried Helen
SECRET

---

14-00000
L
Case No: 67378
SECRET

8 April 1952

B. in Hilliards, Chios that he has worked for Alder's Garage in
Hilliards until about 1927; that te inci been hurt and collected
& claim from the Ohio Industrial Commission; further that he went
to Ohio State University and graduated with a B.S.C. degree in
1939 and then went on the payroll of O.S.U. in lecember 1939.
Presently Assistant Director of the 0.5.0. Research Foundation,
and prior to this was Assistant Fraternity Auditer. Further, i
1919 he had financed an automobile through General Motore vith a
mortgage of 8949.00 which is prompts that his credit rating is
good, nothing against him and most purchases are for cash,

POLICE (CRIMINAL AND SUBVERSIVE) RECOPDS:
At Columbus, Ohler

The records of the Columbus Police Department, on 7 February
1952, failed to reveal any information on SUBJECT. The files of
the Ohio Un-American Activities Commission were examined on
April 1952 and failed to reveal any information on SUBJECT.

---

14-00000
L

SECRET
10
SECRET
Assistant Director for Special Operations
ATTENTION: Staff
FRON : Chief, Special Security Division
SUBJECT: PZ 2359
#67378
for
1. Reference is made to your request dated 27 December 1951
& recommendation as to whether an Operational Clearance should be granted
to perait the Subject's use as cover in Burope unter sover of present
ployment.

2. The attached information regarding the subject is furnished to
you as an aid in determining whether or not the Subject should be used under
the authority of an Operational Clearance in the capacity set forth in your
request.

3. This memorandum pertains chly to the assignment mentioned in
Paragraph 1 above. It is requested that this office be informed of your
decision as to whether you intend to use the Subject. If the Subject is
not used, the attached material should be returned to the writer in a
sealed envelope marked "Eyes Only," indicating the reasons for not using
the subject.
O.C

FOR THE SECURITY OFFICER, CIA:
Robert W.

Attachments:
MOD 2/19/52
Inv. rpt. 3/8/52
ROBERT H. CUNNINGHAM

Mog. Data
SECRET
SECRET

---

14-00000
L
N

Chief, Special Security Division
!ד. Cleyton
Atter
FROM
STC SB 700
SUBJECT: PZ-2359

1. The follovine bioprential data is available on Subjects
2
as Zapar Davis
159% Nell Avenue
Columbus, Ohio

Acting Head of Pesearch, Ohio State University
Resmrah Foundation

BSC ta Business Administr tion 1939 Ohio State U.

1939-1942 Assistant Auditor, Dean's Office

Since 1942 has been Assistant to Director
Research Foundation.

Date of Birth will be forwarded as soon as received.
SECRET

---

14-00000
L
SECURITY BUD
SECRET

SECRET
COVERT NAME CHECK REPORT

SUBJECT: T.E.D. 67378 OC 050
DATE: 19 February 1952

In accordance with your request, a covert name check
was conducted on Subject with results as indicated below:
AGENCY

STATE
(less Passport)
OSI

PASSPORT
I&N
SA
DATE
2/6

201
3
202
2/6
2/5
2/13

• 10/12/50 - Investigation revealed nothing derogatory regarding
Subject's character, reputation, employment, neighborhood, and
associates.

Thés data to property of Inspection and Security Offioa, to be re
turned when subject is no longer covertly usod. Its existence or
contents must not be disclosad except to CIA Staff Officets
directly concerned
SECRET

---

14-00000
Chu ton
Cede
Asplill
PZ-2354P
051-NR
1987
FBI-CPENA - at 50 nating Leray.
ONI-ASFeb 52
Talkest
Billy
Clayton
4:10
Jollin&tim srow
Calle
I gave secrets
was that
Is go to edit illed
cheb foil lete
now sonent the
ults. Could
day it all othe
Called
Clayton
Say 19 Jan 1903
nowy Wellston, plud
SC
Q clearanc
144 6514
Feb149.
23
m

---

14-00000
L
D
Attas

Chief, Special Scerity Avision
Mr. Clayton

FROM
STC STB
SUPJECT: PZ-2359

1. The following biographical data is available on Subjects
Thomas Edgar Davis
15% Neil Avenco
Columbus, Ohio

Acting Hend of Research, Onto State University
Research Foundation

B90 in Business Administration 1939 Ohio State U.

1939-1942 Assistant Auditor, Dean's Office

Since 1942 has been Assistant to Director
Research Foundation.

Bate of Birth will be forwarded as soon as received.
SECRET

---

14-00000
L

Ostone 1154
hate sittito come,
Thomas Edgar Davis
1596 Neil Avenue
Columbus, Ohio
Head of Research
OSU Research
Foundatio
BSC - Bus adm 1939
Ohno State U
1939-1942 Ass anditos
Auditorifice
Sas been ant to recla
Research Forudain 9942

---

14-00000

SECRET
TO
Attn:
FROM 8
SUBJECT:
Chief, Special Security Division
Mr., Clayton
STC/SPB
Thomas E. Davis **
James D. Ovens, Director, Chio State
University Rover chabundation
A. DADLINE:
(1)(2)
Date 27 December 1951
Ρ.Ζ. # 2359
BB-742-AD
(3)
(4)
(5)
B. CILARACTER OF CASE: (1)0.C. (2)P.O.C.x (3)C.N.C._ (4)C.S.C. (5)P.
C. CLASSIFICATION: Agent Clericai Service Other Cover
D. LREM: Europe Middle East Far East Latin America Specific
E. SUBJECT'S COVER: U.S. Govt.
Commercial
Undesignated
Religious
Other
For. Govt.
Academic
Professional
Pres. Empl. *
F. ACTION: Investigation, including covert name checks
Covert name checks only
Development of biographic data
Reply as soon as possible re I&S check FBI check Other
Special nane checks
6. SUGGESTED COVER FOR INVESTIGATION:
General U.S、 Government interest
Non-government, commercial interest
Special
H. The chief of the interested Division has certified that OSO operational
files and documents contain no information of investigative or security
interest in addition to that set forth in PMQ I and II. (Reviewed by):
I. Please return attached PRQ Part I PHS 57's Biog. Data with rosult
Blographid Data is contained I-742-AD
of your action.
00 has granted a release for subject's use by the Division,
**Per telephone conversation Hohen/playon 29 Dec 51

---

14-00000
7
Tom.
Pls make paper changes
tnplace
This action. became Owens
Owens with Doves in
veigued
his position and Jan's has taken bis
place. Show orally Low the with
K. Clayton 108. 29 Dee 51. Ott paper
should be returned to Ordon of Plans Staff
inhan now papas have been initiated.

---

14-00000
L
SECRET
SELURIST INFORMATICE
CS-1124 (Cabern)
Priority
21 December 1951
:
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, STC/BPB
FROK:
SUBJECT:
Chief, PLARS
Request for Operational Clearance on James S. Ovens,
Director, Ohio State Uniwrsity Research Foundation

1. Vith reference to the serversation between. Kr. Kaufesa and
Mr. Osborn on 20 December 1951, it is requested that action be taken
to escure provisional operational clearance on Dr. James S. Ovens,.
Directer, Ohio State Uniwrsity Research Foundation.

2. Subject to successful clearance, it is planned to have a
representative of FDV contact Dr. Owens through an appointment arranged
by 00 to determine if he would be willing to prepare a letter from the
Foundation to the Ameriona-Scandanavian Foundation in New York. The
content of this letter would introduce and sponsor financially an
and to send to one of the Scandanavian countried
cater spensership of the American-Scandinavian Foundation.deny

9.7. sans and his assistant, Thoms B. Davis, already possess
a. CIA clearance up to and including "Secret" in connection with
classified CIA projees being carried out by the Mapping and Charting 17051
Laboratory of the Foundation. The 0.8.U. Research Foundation has a
considerable unclassified progrea, however, and its connection wit
CIA is not publicly known. It is understood that br. Harris Lyons,
الضمان
Zass, has all the details concerning the clearances on Dr. Ovens and your Bal
w. Davis.

4. is extremly anxious to complete thess arrangemente, and
it would be appreciated if you would treat this request as a priority
matter
Got To Darringor
7.
SECRET

---

14-00000
BANE (PERSON CALLING
OFFICE MESSAGE
:
IN PERSON
TELEPHONE
A. M.
DISPEGERD
A
Please wrist
RETURNED YOUR CALL
LCALL AGAIN
ALASE CALL
wrifte upa
POC. Ave alread
telephand the to
The to
FORM NO.
SEP 1946
194636-9
RECEIVED BY
BENT PRINTING OFFICE
30-00874-1
D
Owens
cros EE-742-AD
HOUA
ese
FBI-NC17 meg
ONNE
でも
$1987 nent
MORR

---

14-00000

SECRET
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "TO" : pumn. Under each comment a line should be drawn across sheet
and each comment numbered to correspond with the utiber in the "TO" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient)
beicre further routing. This Routing and Record Sheat should be returned to Registry.
FROM:

TO
1.
STC/SPB
2.
2.
4.
5.
7.
10
11.
12.
13,
14.
Chief, PLANS
ROOM
NO.
DATE
RECO
نعمه
Entered 26 Dec 51
OFFLER'S
INITIALS
DATE
21 Dec 1951
COMMENTS
BY HAND ONLY
Chayton laking
ta line
proper 185
Cobronk not ly us

Poc 154/off/27057
00 to
OS Borne ptates the leve
clearance from 0 t
use man 27 57
Tho
FORMNO. 81-10
1980
SECRET

---

14-00000

SECRET
SECURITY INFORMATION

CS-1124 (Osborn)
Friority
21 December 1951

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, STC/SPB
Chief, PLANSH
FROM:

SUBJECT:
Ju
Request for Operational Clearance on Jemes 8. Owens,
Director, Ohio State University Research Foundation

1. With reference to the conversation between Mr. Kaufman and
Mr. Osborn on 20 December 1951, it is requested that action be taken
to secure provisional operational clearance on Dr. James S. Owens,
Director, Ohio State University Research Foundation.

2. Subject to successful clearance, it is planned to have a
representative of FDV contact Dr. Ovens through an appointment arranged
by 00 to determine if he would be willing to prepare a letter fron the
Foundation to the American-Scandanavian Foundation in New York. The
content of this letter would introduce and sponsor financially an
agent whon FDI has arranged to send to one of the Scandanavian countries
under sponsorship of the American-Scandanavian Foundation.

3. Dr. Ovens and his assistant, Thomas E. Davis, already possess
a CIA clearance up to and including "Secret" in connection with a
classified CIA project being carried out by the Mapping and Charting
Laboratory of the Foundation. The 0.8.U. Research Foundation has a
considerable unclassified program, however, and its connection with
CIA is not publicly known. It is understood that Mr. Harris Lyons,
IASS, has all the details concerning the clearances on Dr. Ovens and
Mr. Davis.

4. DV is extremely anxious to complete these arrangements, and
it would be appreciated if you would treas this request as a priority
mattor.
SECRET

---

14-00000
٢٠٠٩
SECRET
SUPPORT AND PROTECTION BRANCH
Operational cleanesori: Shect

SPB File 0.1987.

Name S
(al,
PRQ I
Division Traces
Of Files
Green List
Staff C
Local Field Traces
Othor Field Traces
I&S Indicas
5. DAVIS, Thomas E.
(check)
I's Covert Report til flelya vas.
IKS Investigation
Bieg data
PRQ II
NIII
(date)
:
Project
Roviowed
EFF 25 JANEY
Set FEB 2 1952
P11952. 1763
MAY 71952
Operational Clearanco 236 HAY
Operation Reviewed

W/JARJA
t
in such a hurry,
Checked w/ JAK
MOI THO
Poc
Would be
alliyapo
Auth Q
BAEL
Du Face
nown to be
Roone
Called Lan
amellis ne
Concrete develo
700 20-2
?
