104-10215-10003 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

AIR
(SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH)

TO : Chief, WHD
FROM : Chief of Station, Habana
SUBJECT: GENERAL- Administrative
SPECIFIC- Arthur G. VAIVADA

DISPATCH NO. HKH-A-1025
(201-16681)
(223-88/2-139)ocal

SECRET KAPOK
CLASSIFICATION
m Dahlgren

DATE: 7 November 1957

1. Attached herewith is a memorandum prepared by the Subject, dated
29 October 1957, calling the attention of Headquarters to the fact that
his assignment in Habana terminates in June 1958 and setting out his wishes
as to reassignment thereafter.

2. While Vaivada did not include it in his memorandum, in recent
conversations with the case officer he has expressed considerable interest
in the possibility of being assigned under unofficial cover to Spain,
saying that both he and his wife would welcome such an assignment. The
Subject has also said in those conversations that he would not take it
amiss if an opportunity for reassignment outside of the Central America-
Caribbean area were to become open to him at any time prior to June 1958.

3. In the opinion of the Station, Vaivada has done a very good job
here, having been confronted with and overcome a number of difficult
problems and situations during his tour of over three years in Habana.
The Station is happy to recommend that his request for reassignment be
given every consideration.

James R. Palinger
James R. Palinger

Attachments:
Memorandum of Reassignment (4 copies)

Distribution:
- Washington w/att.
2- Files w/att.

4 November 1957

JRP/nin

For Cal 43-26
201-168881

FORM BO
CLASSIFICATION
28-51 و19 م A

SUBJECT: Reassignment - Arthur G. Vaivada
TO : Headquarters Desk
THROUGH: Chief of Station, Havana, Cuba

Havana, Cuba
29 October 1957

1. While at Headquarters in the early part of May 1957, it was verbally
agreed that I return to Cuba for about one year, security permitting.

2. While my operational work in Cuba from August 1954 until February
1957 was concentrated on communist targets in the University of Habana, it
should te pointed out that my duties during that period also involved many
contacts with subversive oppositionist elements. When governmental persecution
increased during February 1957, two of my key agents were lost, one of them
by governmental assassination, so that I was obliged to leave Cuba temporarily
pending clarification of the security factors involved. During my three
months atsence in PEPRIME the local situation deteriorated; and after my
return my position was less favorable than it had been as a newcomer since I
had lost assets but had retained the cumulative security hazards of three years
of cultivation and recruitment efforts. The University was, and still is,
closed. Our communist penetration efforts are continuously harrassed by
official persecution of the target group.

3. Since by June 1958 I shall have spent four years in Cuba, I believe
it appropriate to submit this letter at this time requesting that Headquarters
begin to study the possibilities for reassignment about June 1958, or prior
to that date if necessary. As to future assignments, I have no reservations
or special reçuests. I am willing and prepared to travel to any area
consistent with my qualifications. Generally speaking, and for obvious
security reasons, I am interested in getting out of the Central America-
Caribbean area if possible. It may be recalled that I was denied an Argentine
visa in 1953, for purely technical reasons. This situation may be changed,
and I would not be opposed to a tour in Argentina, Chile, or any of the South
American republics. In this matter, the nature of the new project or
assignment would take precedence with me over personal preferences as to
particular area of assignment.

At To HKHA 4025
7NOV 57

DESENSITIZED
por CX 43-26
201-168881

Reassignment Arthur G. Vaivada
29 October 1957, Page 2

4. Regarding my cover status: I entered Cuba in 1954 under student
cover (Pan American Foundation Scholarship), and as it became increasingly
more difficult to maintain owing to student disturbances, I completed a
course in the writing of free-lance fiction and am thrice published. This
writing has been used as a realistic, stop-gap cover, even after I was
provided with a notional business cover (Public Surveys Institute) cy Head-
quarters. I understand that journalism is considered a weak and time-worn
cover; yet if it is worled at, and financially managed through a PEPRIME
checking account, it not only satisfies local SS probes but it does not have
the inherent disadvantages involved in setting up a full-fledged business
cover. I set this out as a possible suggestion to Headquarters, but have
no insistence as to journalistic over business cover. The notional
business cover provided me has proved satisfactory in a limited sense thus
far, and even utilized as cover for action occasionally, but I would be
uncertain about introducing it in a less "Americanized" country than Cuba.

อง
11837

Arthur C. Vawoda
Arthur G. Vaivada

201-168881
