104-10183-10267
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

TO: DIRECTOR
FROM: 1
ACTION:
INFO: DOP, WHENS, CI Caps, city, Fi, VR

SECRET 3422232
DER CITE TEGU 5633
DYBOUR PERUMEN ANIUG
FEF: TEGU 5625

FOLLOWING FROM LANGOSCH
1. PESVING CHIEF AND LANGOSCH HAD PRIVATE MEET MORNING

A SEPT WITH CHIEF OF STATE COL. OSWALDO LOPEZ LANGOSCH BRIEFED
ON DGI OPS AND ORGANIZATION, INCLUDING INFO ON MARIO SOSA MOLO
MAGLIO MORENO ESPITAL LUIS BANEGAS AND ANTONIO FERNANDEZ IZA

WHO USES HONDURAN DOCS IN NAME CIGUEL MANCIA MADRID ALSO
FUNISHED RECENT TRAVEL LISTS AND COPY OF PGI REQUIREMENTS ON
24

2. LOPEZ EXHIBITED KEAN INTEREST, REVIEWED ALL NAMES, SAID
HE KNEW SOME PERSONALLY INCLUDING SOSA, PROMISED PROVIDE ALL
POSSIBLE INFO ON ALL HONDURANS THROUGH PESVING CHIEF AND EXPRESSED
VILLINGIESS LEND FULL COOPERATION. SAID GOVT HAS ABOUT 25 COMMIES
UNDER ARKEST AND HAS HAD TO RELEASE OTHERS FOR LACA OF EV CENCE BUT
SECRET
---

CLASSIND MESSAGE
SECRET TAG

CAPABLE OF MALING ARRESTS OF PEOPLE LIKE IF THEY ENTER COUNTRY
AND VILLING MAKE THEM AVAILABLE TO COYOKE, HENEVER, LOPEZ DECOIFD
LACK OF SECURITY AND COMPETENCE IN HIS GOVT STATINO:
A. HE MUST KEEP MATERIAL FURNISHED IN PERSONAL POSSESSION
OR OUN HOKE BECAUSE OFFICE IS NOT SECURE.

B. MOST PEOPLE IN GOVT INCLUDING THOSE IN INTEL AND POLICE
ARE NOT SECURE EITHER BECAUSE SUSCEPTIBLE TO BRIEFS OR
NOT ABLE SAFEGUARD ANY CONFIDENCES.

C. NOBODY IN GOVT IS TRAINED TO COPE WITH DOI OPS.
D. GENERALLY GOVT PERSONNEL FAR LESS ASTUTE THAN SOSA AND
OTHER COMMIES.

3. LOPEZ MENTIONED FELIX OYUELA, CHIEF AREY INVESTIGATOR,
AS ONLY TRUSTED AND REASONABLY COMPETENT PERSON BUT ADDED GYUELA
TOO BURDENED WITH OTHER DUTIES. THEREFORE, SLEX SUITABLE CANDIDATE
WHOM LOPEZ WILL PROPOSE TO PESWING CHIEF SO SUCH PERSO
COULD DE TRAINED AND DEVOTE TIME TO SUBVERSIVE AND ESPICIAGE
MATTERS.
SECRET
• CONCERNED LANGOSCH PRICES CH Hội Cờ

SECRET
