119-10021-10413 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: DOS
RECORD NUMBER : 119-10021-10413
RECORDS SERIES :
INR FILES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : FBI

DOCUMENT INFORMATION
Date: 09/20/93
Page:1

ORIGINATOR : DOS
FROM : CHAIRMAN, SUBCOMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUB
TO: MEMBERS OF SUBCOMMITTEE ON CASTRO
TITLE :
REPORT FOR JULY - AUGUST ON ACTIONS TAKEN TO COMBAT CASTRO-COMMUNIST S
DATE: 09/30/63
PAGES: 23
SUBJECTS :
SUBCOMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION
DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM
CLASSIFICATION :S
RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/09/93
OPENING CRITERIA :
DOD AND CIA REVIEW
COMMENTS:
Draft subcommittee report attached.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
NW 50953 DocId:32112623 Page 1
***
***
**
*W*
*I*
*T*
*H*
*D*
*R*
*A*
*W*
*A*
*L*
**
*C*
*A*
*R*
*D*
**
***
**

September 30, 1963

TO: Members of Subcommittee on Castro-Communist Subversion.
FROM: Chairman, Subcommittee on Cuban Subversion
SUBJECT: Report for July - August on Actions Taken to Combat Castro-Communist Subversion.

Attached is a draft of the Subcommittee's report for July and August on actions taken to counteract Castro-communist subversion in the hemisphere. The draft has been prepared on the basis of the material which you furnished with certain codification. The CIA member will note that I have extracted from his submission the items of action taken and placed these in the body of the report. The intelligence information contained in the submission I have made into an annex. I think it is very useful to save the intelligence data from part of the report, and request that in the future the CIA member prepare his submission in two parts.

May I have your comments on the draft by close of business October 1, 1963.

Copies to: CIA - Mr. Wheeler (2)
DOD - Col. Haig (1)
USIA - Mr. Vagley (1)
RAR - Mr. Hort (1)
Justice - Mr. Geoghegan (1)

Alva Chandler:j8
9/30/63
62-108553-5
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification
NW 50953 DocId: 32112623 Page 2

DRAFT SECRET
1. Control of Travel to and from Cuba
Central Intelligence Agency
a. Developed highly useful information on frequency of Cuban "chartered" flights to Brazil, names and nationalities of passengers and crew, and lax measures of control followed by Brazilian authorities. Transmitted this information to station chiefs in the Latin American countries of the non-Brazilians travelling on these flights.
2 of 7 copies
GROUP I
Excluded from automatial
downgrading and
declassification

b. Maintained close watch over travel to and from Cuba. See Annex B for table of known travel of Latin Americans during July and August.

c. As a result of information furnished by him by the CIA Station in Buenos Aires and with the Station's urging, the Argentine Minister of Interior indicated that he would make every effort to prevent Argentine delegates from attending the International Union of Architects Congress in Havana.

d. At the urging of the CIA Station and the Embassy the Bolivian Minister of Interior issued in mid-July an order prohibiting the granting of travel permits to Cuba on other bloc countries to Bolivian nationals.

NW 50953 DocId:32112623 Page 3
62-108553-5
SECRET
ENCLOSURE

SECRET
-2-
e. Partly as a result of the efforts of the CIA station in Santiago, the Government of Chile prohibited the entry into Chile of organizers of the Cuban sponsored Second Latin American Youth Congress, which had been scheduled to take place in Santiago in August. This was one of the factors which led to postponement of theCongress.

f. After considerable prodding by the CIA Station and the Embassy the Minister of Public Security of Costa Rica presented legislative proposals to the Costa Rican Assembly which will require all persons intending to travel to Communist countries to have their travel approved by a newly created Costa Rican security agency.

g. CIA Station in Mexico City developed information concerning the clandestine arrival of passengers in Vera Cruz on Cuban merchant ships. Efforts are being made to obtain more information and to encourage stricter controls by the Mexican authorities.

Department of State
a. Instructed Embassy Conakry to try to persuade Guinean authorities to deny use of airport facilities by flights on Habana-Moscow route. These efforts achieved a temporary withholding of permission for future regular flights, at least
NW 50953 DocId:32112623 Page 4

SECRET
-3-
until such time as the Soviets develop their own refueling facilities at Conakry.

b. Instructed Embassy Rio to approach Brazilian authorities to express our deep concern at the growing frequency of Cuban non-scheduled flights to Brazil and request their cooperation in curbing them. Also instructed cur Embassies in several Latin American countries to work with CIA station chiefs in furnishing the names of nationals of those countries travelling on these flights to local authorities and urging them: (1) to institute tightor controls on their own citizens travelling to Cuba, and (2) to express their concern to the genre of Brazil over Cannes of Brazil as a way station for transporting subversivec.

c. As a result off representations made to the British government about Cuban flights to the Cayman Islands carrying Latin American subversives, the British developed an administrative scheme which will effectively prohibit the use of British Caribbean dependencies by Cubana as transit points for passengers. The British intend to require transit visas of passengers passing through their areas, and to reject applications for such visas except in certain special cases. Persons not possessing visas would be prevented from leaving their aircraft, or would be
NW 50953 DocId:32112623 Page 5

SECRET
returned to their point of origin.

d. Instructed Embassy Mexico City on August 29 to inform the Mexican airline CMA that the United States is opposed to a proposal that CMA operate charter flights to carry refugeds from Havana to Central America. CMA, as a result, stated that they had no intention of proceeding further with this project.

e. Instructed U.S. Missions in Curaceo and the Ha gue to investigate a report that KLM was planning to renew si scheduled Curacao-Habana flights and to reiterate US opposition to resumption of air service to Cuba, KLM assured our Embassy that there is no plan to initiate service, scheduled or non-scheduled, to Habana.

f. Instructed Embassy Ottawa to express our strong objections to a proposal that a Cubana charter flight pick up a second group of U.S. students in Montreal to fly them to Cuba. The flight was not authorized.

g. Instructed Consulate Georgetom to investigate Cubana approaches to secure flight facilities. Mission reported on August 1 that the Governor had no knowledge of any talks between the B.G. Ministry of Communications and the Cuban Government regarding landing rights for Cubana planes. The Governor
NW 50953 DocId:32112623 Page 6

SECRET
indicated his intention to inquire further and to keep us advined. London reported that neither the Cuban nor the British Guiana Governments had raised the issue of landing rights with H.M.G.

h. Urged the governments of Mexico, Canada, Jamaica and the Netherlands to refuse to assist the Cuban government In its efforts to find a short route for returning the 58 American students who illegally travelled to Cuba. Also informed Fan American Airways that we were opposed to a Cuban request for a PAA charter flight to fly the students from Habana to New York.

i. Instructed our missions at Port of Spain and Barbados on several occasions to approach these governments to express the concern of the U.S. at indications of Cuban interest in the use of their aviation facilities.

Embassy Port of Spain discussed with the Foreign Secretary of Trinidad various legal moves available that would enable GOTT to control movements of aircraft within their territory, citing examples of such controls instituted by Mexico, Canada and Ireland. He indicated receptiveness to the proposal that the list of suggestions be made available to the aviation officials -concerned.

j. During a previous reporting period Embassy Santiago
NW 50953 DocId:32112623 Page 7

SECRET
-6-
urged the government of Chile to refuse visas to Cuban delegatos to a preparatory meeting planning for the II Latin American Youth Congress scheduled for August in the Chilean capital. Inability of Cuban delegates to obtain Chilean visas for this meeting is one of the contributing factors to the Cuban sponsors announcing during August that the meeting had been postponed.

k. Sent general instructions to our missions in countries: which participate in the International Union of Architects asking them to urge the cooperation of governmental authorities in preventing or discouraging the attendance of their citizens to the VII UIA Congress in Habana, September 29-October 4, 1963. Followed this up with instructions to individual posts to try where feasible to dissuade architects from free world countries from serving on the jury for the selection of a Day of Pigs monument.

l. Urged Canadian Government to block a plan to commence food parcel shipments to Cuba, ea, on a commercial basis, that would have required the establishment of scheduled weekly charter flights by Canadian planes.
NW 50953 DocId: 32112623 Page 8

SECRET
-7-
2. Control of Movement of Cuban Propaganda
Central Intelligence Agency

Responding to the urging of the CIA Station police of the State of Guanabara seized large quantities of propaganda brought into Brazil by passengers on the special Cubana flights. For example, some 50 pounds of printed propaganda was taken from the various passengers who arrived on the 16 August Cubana flight.

3. Control of Clandestine Movement of Guerrillas and Arms
Department of Defense

a. Continued surveillance of the area surrounding Cuba during the month of July at the same rate and with the same emphasis as prior to 1 July 1963.

b. Continued to maintain U.S. Forces, primarily from within the Atlantic Command, available to assist other Caribbean governments in the interception of suspicious craft in territorial waters, as might be requested. No such requests were received from any other government during the period covered by this report. However, U.S. Forces did keep track of the location of the Soviet merchant freighter MITCHURINSK, which
NW 50953 DocId:32112623 Page 9
SECRET

SECRET
-S-
was suspected of carrying subversives and arms from Cuba to British Guiana in mid-July. MITCHURINSK was under U.S. surveillance from its departure from Havana until United Kingdom forces assumed the task of keeping this ship under surveillance upon its approach to Ceorgetown, British Guiana. Subsequently, British police search of MITCHURINSK in British Guiana waters revealed nothing of a suspicious nature.

Contral Intelligence Agency
At the repeated urging of the CIA Station in Lima the Peruvian Government late in August published a new anti-terrorists law providing a penalty of no less than five years imprisonment for persons who particiate in guerrilla activities or in the illegal manufacture of weapons or explosives.

The Peruvian National Intelligence Service is working on a lead furnished by the CIA Station in Lima concerning a 200 ton vessel reportedly involved in arms traffic..

Department of State
Instructed our Consulate General in Georgetown to investigate reports that commercial cargoes (which could conceal illicit arms traffic out of Cuba) had developed between British Cuiana and Cuba. Investigations to date have been negative.

NW 50953 DocId:32112623 Page 10
SECRET

SECERT

1. Control of Transfer of Fenús
Department of State

Cooperated with the Foreign Assets Control Office of the Treasury Department in developing blocking controls with respect to Cuba which went into effect on July 9, 1963,

2. Strengthening of Counter-Insurgency Capabilities
Department of Defence

a. Continued the installation of military communications facilities in Latin America. Operational dates for the multi-channel radio stations to be installed in Managua, Nicaragua and Tegucigalpa, Honduras have been delayed to 15 October 1963 and 15 December 1963, respectively because of new engineering and contractual requirements. Negotiations are continuing with Colombia and Ecuador for installation of U.S. military radio facilities. Completion of a new commercial trans-isthmian cable in the Panama Canal Zone within the coming month is expected to improve military communications within the United States and the Commander-in-Chief, U.S. Southern Command.

b. Continued the surveillance of Cuba by U.S. Forces, reporting as before to U.S. commanders, organizations and agencies.

NW 50953 DocId:32112623 Page 11
SECRET

SECCAT
-10-
Reports of surveillance have been disseminated to all who have a requirement to know.

c. Established a 24 hour per day, 7 days per week duty watch at the U.S. Military Groups in the Caribbean countries in conjunction with implementation of the military alerting system. Continued efforts to staff the U.S. Southern Command Intelligence Center with properly cleared, trained personnel (this center is the military focal point for relaying information concerning the movement of subversives). Filled, partially, the authorized billets in the U.S. Southern Command Intelligence Center and took under consideration the problem of an increase in the billet structure in the Center. The Commander-in-Chief, U.S. Southern Command together with his intelligence officer visited Honduras and Nicaragua and determined that no significant problems existed which would interfere with effective operations in those countries.

d. Action previously initiated by the Commander, U.S. Naval Forces, Southern Command (CCMUSNAVSC) to establish a Small Craft Inspection and Training Team (SCIATT) as a contribution to the Caribbean Surveillance System is progressing satisfactorily.

NW 50953 DocId:32112623 Page 12
SECRET

SECRET
-11-
Permanent assignment of U.S. Coast Guard personnel to SCIATT in the Canal Zone has been approved and the U.S. Coast Guard has taken appropriate implementing actions.

c. During the period of this report, the SCIATT conducted an on-the-job training course at Puntarenas, Costa Rica. Training was given to 13 members of the Guardia Civil of Costa Rica who were either newly assigned to the 40 foot Coast Guard utility boats (CCUBs) or were to be assigned as replacement crew members.

f. A quarterly inspection and evaluation of the CGUES provided other Central American countries was conducted during the period 17 to 31 August by a mobile training team (MTT) made up of SCIATT personnel.

g. Continued efforts to improve the internal security of Latin American armies through the provision of Intelligence Advisors. Precently there are such advisors assigned to 14 Latin countries, emphasizing counterintelligence and counter-subversion.

h. During the reporting period MTTS conducted training in counterinsurgency for the armed forces of Colombia, Bolivia, Venezuela, Peru and El Salvador.
NW 50953 DocId:32112623 Page 13
SECRET

-12-
i. Civic Action MTTS were sent to Guatemala, Bolivia, Colombia, El Salvador, Jamaica and Ecuador.

2. FRchange of Intelligence Orban Subversion
Central Intelligence Agency

CIA Stations throughout Latin America continued in a great majority of countries to fummish to the local internal security organizations with whom they are in liaison informa-tion concerning travelers to and from Cuba, as well as such information as came to CLA's attention concerning the movement of funds, arms and propaganda material. In many instances, the furnishing of information to the internal security service by the CIA Station was paralleled by the furnishing of similar Information to the foreign office by the Ambassador or his representative. The response to this information has varied greatly. The Central American countries, in general, began to pay attention to the information and take action on it. At the during the reporting period other extreme, the Brazilian Covernment/showed little inclination to follow up on the information.

Department of State
a. Reiterated to the Foreign Minister of Peru our interest in having the facts of the Puerto Maldonado incident
NW 50953 DocId:32112623 Page 14
SECRET

SECRET
-13-
brought to the attention of the CAS, and urged that this action be taken as soon as possible.

b. Urged the Government of Guatemala to submit evidence of communist activity to the CAS.

3. Surveillance of Cuban Dinlomatic, Commerical and Cultural Missions.
Central Intelligency Agency
Home filled in by M. Wheel)
(To be
NW 50953 DocId:32112623 Page 15

Department of State
SECRET
-14-
Instructed Embassy La Paz to follow up closely on charges of involvement of Cuban rission in internal politics of Bolivia, and, at the Embassy's discretion, to point out to Bolivian officials the opportunity for a possible break in relations with Cuba. Embassy La Paz was not able to press for a break when the evidence of Cuban intervention did not prove to be as conclusive as originally reported.

4. Other Special Actions
Department of State

a. Obtained action by La COAS on July 3 on the Lavalle Committee Report transmitting De Cocument to the governments and urging them to implement the specific and general recom-mendations contained therein as soon as possible.

b. Through Embassy Managua informed the Nicaraguan Covernment of the matters which we wanted to have considered during the informal meeting of the Ministers of Security and Interior of the Isthmian countries held in Managua, August 26-23 in preparation for the second formal meeting of the Managua Security Conference countries later this year.
NW 50953 DocId: 32112623 Page 16
SECRET

SECRET
-15-
c. Reassured President Schick of Nicaragua in the most emphatic terms that the Nuclear Test Dan Treaty did not mean that our attitude toward Castro has altered in the slightest, and stressed our interest in seeing steady progress by all the Isthmian countries in implementing the recommenda-tions of the Managua Security Conference to block Cuban subversive efforts.

d. Explained in detail the nature of the Cuban threat and the related policy objectives of the U.S., during conversa-tion in London and in Washington with Mr. Adam Watson, newly appointed British Ambassador co Cuba.
United States Information MODOY
a. The Agency's press service during the reporting period transmitted 12 articles, commentaries, and backgrounders on its wireless file service to USIA posts throughout Latin America for placement in the local newspapers and the Voice of America Spanish broadcasts to Latin America carried a total of 23 ccomentaries and features on the subject of Cuban-based subversion in addition to the regular reporting of developments in the hourly newscasts.
NW 50953 DocId: 32112623 Page 17
SECRET

SECRET
-16-
b. In response to standing Agency instructions to give special attention to developments related to Cuba-based subversion, USIS posts in Latin America were prompt in reporting incidents and in providing editorial comments from the Latin American press, all of which was used in the Agency's radio and press output.

The main developments treated in the Agency's radio and press coverage included Castro's July 26 speech urging revolu-tions in Latin America, the discovery of terrorist weapons
AT
factories in Guayaquil, the Ecuadorean Vice President's accusion of Cuban responsibility for terrorism, the statement by State Department Press Officer Richard Phillips that "potential subversive agents" from Cuba to the Caribbean area were passing through Gran Cayman, the expulsion of a Bolivian youth leader for receiving funds from Cuba, Castro-trained terrorists in and Honduras,/Bolivian protests against meddling by the Cuban Embassy in the miner's strike. A Voice of America roving reporter in Latin America provided several reports ofzinzien on the subversion picture in countries he visited.

c. In support of the Agency's effort on Cuban-based subversion, the publications center in Mexico began work on
NW 50953 DocId:32112623 Page 18
SECRET

-17-
three pamphlets during the perfod based on Castro's report of his visit to the Soviet Union (showing that he contradicted himself in some of his extravagant claims of Soviet progress), the losses suffered by Cuban labor under Castro, and the fate of political prisoners in Cuba. When completed, these pamphlets will be reproduced and distributed in quantity throughout the area.
NW 50953 DocId:32112623 Page 19
SECRET

CERET
September 30, 1963
Heabers of Subcommittee on Cretro-Communice Subversion.
Chairman, Sobemmittee on Cuban Subversion
SUJEUT: Report for July - August on Actions Token to Combat Castro-Commuulat Subversion.

Attached is a draft of the Sabcommittee's report for July and August on actions taken to counterset Castro-comunist subversion in the heatsphere. The draft hes basa prepared on the basis of the moteriel which you furniciad with acetata modification. The CIA er will note that I hove extracted from his ruimission the items of cétion tokon and places these in the body of the resort. The intelligonce Intomation contained in the cubalssion I have made into an annex. I think it is very useful to save the intelligence Cata fom part of the report, and request that in the future the CIA mester prepare his subcianion in two parts.

May I have your comcats on the draft by close of business October 1, 1963.
Copies to: CLA - Mr. Whester (2)
DOD - Col. Haig (2)
UGIA - Hr. Vagley (1)
RAR - Mr. Hort (1)
Justice - Mr. Geoghegpat (1)

ALA:UCloudlor:38
9/30/03
62-108553-5
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
doclassification
NW 50953 DocId: 32112623 Page 20
ENCLOSURE
:
GROUP I
-Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification
SECRET
CIA Jatolitronco Annex
ANEX A
Travel to and from Cuba

Cherterèd Cubana Airlines flights between Cuba and Brasil have become a major means of transporting non-Cuban Latin Americans to and from Cuba. The five such flights since late July have carried nearly 400 non-Cubans.

The first of the recent series on 25 July -- brought 71 Latin American passengers to Havana for the 25 July colob tions. The other four flights on 15, 22, 23 and 29 August -- transported over 200 Latin Americans to Brasil from Havena. Some of the aircraft involved returned to Cubs with craller numbers of passengers. Winy of the 200 Estin Arerican passengers had been delegates to the 26 July cerotonies, but others had apperently been in Cube for longar periode and sore had probably received training there. Of the passengers on these four flights to Brazil, 75 wore nacives of Caribbean area countries. Their circuitous travel through Brazii wa evidently designed to belp conceal the fout that they had been in Cuba.

Costa Rica
Two Costa Ricans were amoon the passengers on a charcored Cabana plane which was turned back to lavana at Grand Cayann da 11 July 1963. One ma Lur Herina Hernandes Salaser, the only Costa Rican voran known to have been sent to Cuba for training as a guerrilla warfara instructor. She had been in Cuba since September 1562. The other Costa Rican passenger was Carios Cullion, former head of the Costa Rican Society of Friends of the Golan Revolution, who had been ta Ceba since Hovusber 1902.
Fenador

The CIA Station in Quito reports that the military Junta, which assumed power in Ecuador on 11 July, can be expected
NW 50953 DocId:32112623 Page 21
62-108553-کی
SECRET
ENCLOSURE
?
to follow the guidance of the Unbasay and the Station in controlling tovel to and from Cuba and the Soviet bloc, The activities of Caban selversives in Ecuador, at least for the present, have been greatly inhibited by the mass arrests of Communists and pro-Cubans and by the outlawing of the Communist Party by the junta,
Honduras

It is reported that the Honduran Communist Party has issued orders to its members not to attempt to travel to Cuña at the present time. This action to apparently the rosult of the inercasing vigilance of the Honduren government and the greater implementacion of stricter travel controls.
2. Koveront of Cuban Pronacanda
Guatemala

According to an unconfirmed report received in July, a Bureau of Informatica of the Concunist Party of Cuatemala is being formed in collaboration with Prensa latina and is to be masaged clandestinely. It expecto to receive nous by shortwave radio from Cuba and print bulletins for distribution by radio atations. This way indicate a pattern by which Fremst Lotina will attempt to distribute on a more clandestina besis in other areas in Latin Azerica.

Honduras
It was reliably reported that in zid July 1963, a small coastal freighter landed 14 ierge boxes of Communist propaganda on the northern coast of Hondurse, the boxes having bera transferred at sea frou a larger vessel.
3. Hovement of Guerrillas and Arm

Extremist members of the Foronist Party, spparently under the leadership of such figures as licetor Villalon and Join William Cooke, are apparently receiving encouragement and promises of large suns of money from Cula ia support of their efforce to train and organize subversive groups in Argentina.
NW 50953 DocId:32112623 Page 22

Villalea bas stated that his plan calls for expanding and accallocating subversive activities in Argentina celsinating in a completo take over within two yearu. There is no iniics tlon slut Teron himself ans amand to this plan. It has beca reported that leaders of the Cosmonist Party of Argentina have been greatly emoyed by the tendency of the Castro regime to support the revolutionary Paronists without having consulted the Communist Party of Argencim.

It is reported that the so-called Amy of intional Liberation (AML) of Argentina, which is a relatively quali Castroist organization directed from Cuba by John Willian Coche, has in recent wecks been negotiating for the purchase of ams and has been offered tutamchdan guns, barookes and other wonpong by two or three private suppllars. It was reported, bowever, that tho ANL was baving difficulty getting enough dollars fra Cuba to make significant purchased possible.
Bolivia

The Bolivion Mindatry of Foruiga Relations on 23 August protested Cormally to the Ceben Charge d'Affaires in La Pas against the Cuban Khonny support to the sinera during the recent crisis. Subsequy, however, Foreign Minister Fellan informed the Cand it that he need not fear that the Goveromons of Bolivia break dipicentie rolariona wich There has, in fact, avea no hard information linking the Cuben Ezkassy with the provat nining crisis in spite of scoce coconfined roports of Cuban support.
Bumpil'
Cuben Ambassador to Fins11, Neul Roa Kouri, is reported to have attempted to enc Tereant Stagne loader Francisco Jailho to revitalize the gas in northsra Brazil. According to 2000 reporte efforts are being anda to mify the leadership and bring dissident elamute wader the general direction of Julizo. Other reports ingleses that, although the Cuban Bobassy is providing guidanca arty financial support to the Trovereat, it is not the Intercami dispension in the league.
NW 50953 DocId:32112623 Page 23
:
Colonhtt
:
Fron Colabia reports have been received of incressing Caben sssistance, primarily in the form of training courses ly Instructora who have been trained in Cuba, to the Worker-Student-Peasant Kovanent (ICTC). A small guerrilla band encountered by to Cologbian army in July 1963 was broken up when five nubers of the band wara killed and two others captured.
ammil quantity of, arms and a considerable excunt of books and parphicts on revolutionary warfare, photographs of Didel Castro, Camilo Cienfuegos and bito Tac-tung, and bulletins of the Nod were found at the campsito. Recent reporta have indicated on Lecrease in the terrorist offorts of the HONG and increased promises of assistance from Che Guevara with regard to the training of additional KOC nambers.

Conte Bien
In mid-July an incrensed number of querrillas wor reportedly being trained in Cosen sich by Adolfo Carcia Zorberena, voll-knom Binardgma rovelutionary Loader and rember of the FUM (Ibtiensi Liberation Front a Communior-dominatod, Cuban-supported, anti-dicaragua revolutionary group). In early August, Alberto Sorroco, leader of the FM in Costa Rica, loft with a group of Micaremisma for the Costa Rican-Hicaraguan border. The purchase of an and supplies and the recruitment of Nicsrogans for a noveras splacticaragua are also reportedly undervay in Costa Rica,
4

Hector logentes Jacks."osta Riera agitator, left Sea Jos in nid-Argest for the Niecezivon border to supervise the passage of Nicaraguan querrilles osta Rica into Nicaragua. Degentes, the recently resumei kron stsending the Hay Day cnicucations in Cuba, was ansing this responsibility by the Costa Rican Commitet forty.
Tondures

The Honduran armed forces borsa to nove against a group of pro-Castro queretilas creates apeiras the Nicaraguan Covern-cast and active in the whol or the learaguan-Honkiurca border, The Nicaragua Nacional Cum tan baon conducting operations en ita side of the border agrinot the Insurgents since July. The densa jungle and diirious corrain, lovover, will spada the efforts of both forces to eliminate the guerrillac.
NW 50953 DocId:32112623 Page 24

Infomation on the worstila force is conaty and
unobud of members of the National
-dominated and Cubes-supported
primarily in Honduras and
The strength of the force
conflicting. It is appare
liberation Front (FLR),
revolutionary organiration ausive
Nicaragua aince the fall of 1002.
La not know
.
4
Альтанкий ин
A captured guerrilla of the FLH (National Liberation a Communist-doninetod, (Arben supported, anzi Nicaraguan gmcp) confessed that he was a saber of a group of 46 who eatured Ficaragua from Horderna on 22 July. Na said that their mission was to establish a base camp in the Icatalla mountains, Department of Jincters, in order to indoceminate the peasants and to train them in querrilla acties. He admitted that he bad received sin nonths' suamilla warfare training in Cuba zad that other Fii lesders had received sibiler training. He also sold that the FUN training camp in Honduras was scor El Lagarto, on the Patuca River.

Teenofer of Funde
nmitich Cuina
In Erizich Gelama, Ontana Export-Export Corporation (Gimpen) received a ona sillion dollar advance payment deposited by the Cuban Alimpex Corporation for goods to be delivered to Cuba in the future, Clupex has, in tum, loaned this money to the Covencent of British Guiana. Chedei Jagma's People's Progressive Party is the major stockholder in Cirpex, Kohammed Eassin, Ntanger of Cispex, has indicated that Clapex will be able to secure additional loans Erea Cuba in amounts sufficient to tide the Jagan govacement ovary foreseeable crisis. It ves also reported that Cingen plans to buy aircraft, spero porto and other machinery in the United States for reshipment to Caba.
Camerel

Reports continue to be zeceived from many places indicatin that the suitcase full of currency to still one of the most cocmon methods used by the Cubang for transmitting Emda for uso in supporting subversive activities throughout the kiwieghere. Instances where such funds have been confiscated by the police have occurred recently in El Salvador, Tanama and Ecuador.
NW 50953 DocId:32112623 Page 25
