124-10273-10070
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Office Mem
SECRET
tum
UNGEE LEDRSE
SIDE FOR
CLASSIFICATION
ACTION
GOVERNMENT
TO : MR. BOARDMAN
DATE: January 22, 1958
FROM : AH, BELMONT
BELMONT
PROTET HUNTER - Policy
Jove
INFF 300 FOLILY
SUBJECT: COVERAGE OF MAIL TO THE U.S.S.R.)
Tols
Nicholst
Boardman
Belmont
Masor
Mohr
Parsons
Roser
Tamm
Nease
e) of MI-5, Liaison Representa- Winterrowd
Tele. Room
On January 10, 1958, Harry St Stone) of MI-5,7
tive with the Bureau, confidentially advised that his service had
Nowe meet with their principal, are under instructions to send a proper communication;
7129160 determined that Soviet illegal agents all over the world, when they want a
INFO GIL
sec
Holloman
Gandy
to "K. S. Smirnov, Central Post Office, Vladimir, U.S.S.R." Mr. Stone stated, (S)
the RCMP only.
165-6500 that the aforementioned information was being made available to the Bureau and
!
کو
Braam

On the basis of this information, we immediately instructed the
Washington Field and New York Offices to institute confidential inquiries with
appropriate Post Office officials to determine the feasibility of covering outgoing
correspondence from the U.S. to the (U.S.S.R.), looking toward picking up a
communication dispatched to the aforementioned address.
:

On January 21, 1958, SAC Powers of the New York Office called
advising that his preliminary inquiries at first disclosed that such coverage
could possibly be effected at LaGuardia Airfielă. Powers stated that he subsequently
received a call from the Chief Post Office Inspector who told him that he would not
be able to make such arrangements and explained that something had happened in
Washington on a similar matter and that Bureau Headquarters should take up the
matter with Post Office Headquarters here in Washington. The Post Office
Inspector said that it did not involve our agency and because of what was going
on in Washington at the present time, he just couldn't do it on his own.

Almost simultaneous with this advice, Mr. James Angleton of CIA
approached our Liaison Agent, (Sam Papich) on a personal basis. He indicated
that if it were known within CIA that he was volunteering this information to the
Bureau, he would lose his job. Mr. Angleton stated it had come to the attention
of CIA, through the Post Office, that we were making inquiries concerning the
coverage of mail to the U.S.S.R), and as a result CIA was expecting to receive
an inquiry in Washington from the FBI. Mr. Angleton then admitted that this
coverage was one of the biggest and most secret operations being conducted by
CIA. He stated the coverage is actual
WAB:hmm
(5)
cc: 1- Boardman
1- Belmont
131-Branigan

lly made through the Post Office in New York
4105-930897
MCT-24
SLUFEB 20

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT
WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.
10/26/00
CLASSIFIED BY SPALM
BY SPALM/
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X
MDR-16
"

StoneT
MEMO TO: MR. BOARDMAN
RE: COVERAGE OF MAIL TO THE (U.S. (U.S.S.R.)
and in view of the volume of material being sent from the U.S., their coverage
is an extensive and expensive operation. He indicated that they had to set up an
elaborate array of IBM machines to tally and tabulate the results. In addition
a complicated indexing procedure was involved, as well as complex scientific
examinations of the material. He said two or three hundred CIA employees are
exclusively engaged on various facets of the coverage. Angleton also indicated
that the cost of the operation was well over a million dollars a year, He further
indicated that the coverage has been in existence in excess of a year and he
stated that the sole purpose for the coverage was to identify persons behind the
Iron Curtain who might have some ties in the U.S. and who could be approached
Jin their countries as contacts and sources for CIA. Angleton indicated that CIA
had successfully developed several sources through this means. He stressed
the confidential nature of his information and stated that while other officials of
CIA more directly concerned with the coverage were expecting a visit from the
FBI he was passing this along for our guidance.

It would appear that our inquiries of the Post Office officials in
New York have flushed out a most secret operation of CIA. The question
immediately arises as to whether CIA in effecting this coverage in New York
has invaded our jurisdiction. In this regard, it is believed that they have a
legitimate right in the objectives for which the coverage was set up, namely,
the development of contacts and sources of information behind the Iron Curtain,
and according to Angleton they have had some success: in this regard. At the
same time, there is an internal security objective here in which, because of
our responsibilities, we have a definite interest, namely, the identification of
illegal espionage agents who may be in the United States. While recognizing
this interest, it is not believed that the Bureau should assume this coverage
because of the inherent dangers in the sensitive nature of it, its complexity,
size and expense. It is believed that we can capitalize on this coverage by
pointing out to CIA our internal security objectives and holding them responsible
to share their coverage with us. Of course, we are not interested in the
identities of the numerous persons in this country legitimately corresponding
abroad. The Post Office has indicated there are approximately four thousand
items of correspondence to the U.S.S.R. each day. Angleton said they have not
come up with a microdot or secret message communication as yet.
ACTION:
SECRET
1. On the basis of our inquiries conducted in New York, we are in
a position and should, through Liaison, approach CIA, informing them that it
has been indicated that their Agency has coverage of mail going to the the U.S.S.R U.S.S.R
We should get from them the details of their coverage and explain our interest in
being furnished with the results of the coverage as it might effect internal security
matters

SLUALI
ΜΕΜΟ ΤΟ: MR. BOARDMAN
RE: COVERAGE OF MAIL TO THE U.S.S.R.)
2. It is believed that we can and should furnish CIA with the name
and Moscow address furnished us by the British, telling CIA that we want to (s)
be advised of any communications going to that address. We will not explain
to them our interest in the particular address and, therefore, we will not be
violating the confidence of the British. (5)
د
3. In view of the highly sensitive nature of this coverage, we will
have to work out arrangements so that knowledge of it is strictly confined
within the Bureau. We will handle this the same as - *handle communications
intelligence data.

SECRET
-3-

STANDARD FORM NO. 64
Office Memorandum
TO
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
US HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT
: MR. L. V. BOARDMAN WHERE SHOWN OTHDAY February 6, 1958
FROM: MR. A. H. BELMONT
JUNE
CLASSIFIED BYSTALMEN
10/26/00
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X 6
(U.S.S.R.
SUBJECT: COVERAGE OF MAIL TO THE (U.S.
Tokson
NICOR
Boardman
Belmofit
Mohr
Parsons
Rosen
Tamm
Trotter-
Nease
Holloman
Gandy
Reference my memo of 1-27-58 advising of the briefing given our Hole. Room
Liaison Agent by CIA representatives on 1-24-58 as to the nature and extent of
CIA coverage of mail going to and coming from(Russia) Our Liaison Agent
determined that CIA began this coverage approximatelý a year and a half ago through
confidential arrangements made with postal authorities. Initially, this coverage
involved photographing of envelopes; these envelopes were not to be opened. The
envelopes were microfilmed and the names and addresses appearing thereon were
indexed with IBM equipment. Several months ago CIA began opening some of this mail,
microfilming the contents and indexing pertinent data therein. Approximately 250,000
names have been indexed by CIA. Examination of certain of this mail for microdots and
secret writing has been made to a limited extent because the volume of mail has been too
humerous for the establishment of a practical system without delaying movement of the
mail. CIA has advised that to date it has not discovered any microdots or secret writing
or information revealing evidence of Soviet intelligence operations in the United States.
CIA has also advised that this program has not reached its full potential, but that its
system of opening mail is rapidly increasing. CIA has expressed a willingness to
furnish us any information obtained from this coverage which we feel would be of
interest to us.

An analysis has been made of CIA capabilities as revealed to the Liaison Agent
and it is believed we should request that CIA furnish us information of the following
types, both that which has been received in the past and that which they will obtain in
the future
Prod
1) All correspondence of a suspicious nature, such as that containing double
talk, et cetera.

2) All correspondence indicating that the Soviets may be utilizing a hostage
situation, i.e., correspondence indicating pressure being exerted on (Soviet citizens who
have close relatives in the U.S. or pressure being exerted on individuals in U.S.

3) Any information appearing in correspondence indicating weaknesses or
dissatisfaction on the part of any Soviet presently in the United States so that the Bureau
might give consideration to feasibility of approaching such individuals for defection or
double agent purposes
&
105-93089-4
4) Any information appearing in correspondence Indicating Soviet control or
direction of the Cp, USA.
(APLDEM:mn (9)
CC-
Messrs, Boardman
MCT00
Belmont
Litrento
Branigan
Baumgardner JDDonohue REC-94
55 FFR 2710 Rapich
Turner
KEB 20SECRET
:
EX-135
--

SECRET
:
Belmont to Boardman (2-6-58)
re: COVERAGE OF MAIL TO THE (U.S.S.R.)
With regard to the above coverage, it is believed desirable that Liaison make
arrangements for us to review at CIA any material of this nature and we will then
select that which appears to warrant investigation and then make appropriate checks.
This procedure will eliminate. having CIA sending us a bunch of worthless material with
the possible expectation that we will be running out leads for them. It is believed this
arrangement can be worked out with CIA in a proper fashion.

In addition to the above it is believed the following arrangements can be
effected with CIA:

1) Place stops against names and addresses of individuals possibly presently,
engaged in (Soviet espionage to determine if they are in correspondence with U.S.S.R
This would include a check of the back traffic on these individuals also. We would, of
course, make these stops on a highly selective basis.

2) Request CIA to place stops against addresses in Soviet Russia believed by the
Bureau to be mail drops or suspected mail drops. (It should be noted that we already
have placed a stop with CIA against the name and address of K. S. Smirnov, Central
Post Office, Vladimir, U.S.S.R.), which, according to information received from 1-5,
is a drop utilized by (Soviet illegál (Soviet illegal agents all over the world arranging emergency meet
We will, of course, continue to analyze this coverage by CIA to see that we
obtain maximum benefits.
RECOMMENDATIONS:
:
ings.
.
1) * That information received from this source be hereinafter designated as
Bureau Informant 200) Records Section has advised that this informant symbol has
not been previously used.
:

2)
That this matter and any mail relating thereto be labeled "June" and then
filed and maintained in the Sovme Unit, Room 1734 (the regular repository of "June"
mail) to afford maximum security to this source.

3)
That our Liaison Agent orally advise CIA of the type of data set forth above
that would be of interest to us and make arrangements with CIA so that we can review
this type of information in order to select that which we feel will warrant further
investigation. Liaison should also perfect the arrangement with CIA so that on a
continuing basis we can place appropriate stops with them.
SECRET
(1) CIA ADUISED RE TYPE OF DAT OF INTCA
70 W (2) ARRANGEMENTS MADE TO
(3) ATTRANGERENTS MADE FOR STOPS
1
4) In view of the extreme sensitivity of this matter, a confirmatory memorandum
will_not he furnished to CTA
!
A
بلام

2/13/37
SECRET
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE
TH10 26/10 BY SO2ALM
MEMORANDUM FOR: Director
SUBJECT:
6 February 1958
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. S. J. Pa
XHUNTER Report #1
Papich
ا کے
1. The intercept project that has been explained orally to
(Mr. Papich) will be referred to as Project HUNTER in correspondence
between the Federal Bureau of Investigation and this Agency.
:
2. This explanatory memorandum constitutes HUNTER Report
#1. Future disseminations will be numbered consecutively.

3. In submitting possible traces on individuals of interest to
you, reports will be submitted in the following form:

a. If the individual named in the intercept appears to be
identical with the individual of interest to you, you will be furnished
a reproduction of the exterior, and of the contents if the item has been
opened.

b. If the individual named in the intercept is only possibly
identical with the individual of interest to you, only machine run
listing of the items will be submitted. In such cases a reproduction
of the exterior and of the contents, if the item has been opened, will
be available upon request.

4. In order to facilitate your reading of machine run entries,
there follows an explanation of the various types of replies which you
will receive in connection with requests. A hypothetical request for
any addressee in the U.S. of mail from P. KROVAN) whose location
is believed to be in Moscow, might result in the following reply:
SERICLOSURE
Got
:
REC-94
EX-135 (105-95089-3
SECRET

. Date
Name In
SECRET
7
Ref Loc
Name Out
Ref Loc Ban Firms
A 57CO5C3325 KROVAN, Paraskoviya)(*) ABB EVOSWA, Wasyl ( ) KM
2)(*)
This reply has the following meaning:

"A" has no present meaning. All numbers are now preceeded by
"A" only to allow for future additional classifications. None are
presently contemplated.

"57C09'is the date of intercept, namely: "57" is the year. "C"
indicates the month. The code key for months is set out as Enclosure 1.
"05" is the day of the month. Thus, "57C05" is 5 March 1957.

The group "C3325" is our own internal filing number.

The "Name In" entry identifies the correspondent inside the USSR.
the USSR.)
that KROVAN)sent #
i
letter.
The asterisk in "Ref" column indicates that KROVAN sent the lett

The entry in "Loc" (ation) column indicates the area or city inside
the Soviet Union from which the letter was mailed. In this case it was
mailed from the western section of Ukrainian SSR. The code key
used for this column is set out in Enclosure 2. This code key is to
be used for all items prior to 1 January 1958, on which date a 4-place
code was instituted in order to designate more precisely the localities
within the USSR! A copy of this new code is enclosed as Enclosure 3.

The "Name Out" entry identifies the correspondent outside the
family name is listed first.
(USSR) In both the "Name In" and "Name Out" columns, the last or
The absence of an asterisk in the "Ref" column after EVOSWA
indicates that she is the recipient of the letter.

The entry in the second "Loc" (ation) column indicates the state of
the U. S. (in this case, New Jersey) to which the letter was addressed.
The code key used for this column is set out in Enclosure 4. You
will note that some 3-digit entries indicate large cities within a state,
thus KO indicates New York State and KOA indicates New York City.
For your convenience an alphabetical list of the states with their code
indicator is set out in Enclosure 5.
:
2
A

SECRET
Date
-
The absence of an "X" in the "Ban" column means that the letter
was not opened and that only the exterior is recorded in our files.

5. Since the hypothetical request was for mail from(P. from KROVAN
who is believed to be located in Moscow) only the listing as set out
above would be furnished, since it would not appear that Paraskoviya
KROVAN, located in the western section of the (Ukrainian SSR is
identical If in connection with future investigation or information
otherwise available, you may believe that (KROVAN) may be identical
with the individual of interest to you, you need reference only the
HUNTER report number and request the exterior photographs of
item No. A57C05C3325, which will be reproduced from the original
film and made available to you.

6. If the hypothetical request is for any mail from the (Soviet
Union to Rose ESTERSON, who resides in Chicago, the reply might
be as follows:
Name In
N.)
Ref Loc
Name Out
A57D230 57018 (AVRUNINA, Vera) (*) AAA (ESTERSON, Rose)
Ref Loc Ban Firms
KKB X
The difference in this listing from that previously illustrated is as follows:

"U" is our internal identifying designator. The first date is the date
of the intercept. The second date is the date of the communication
inside the letter. The "X" under the "Ban" column indicates the letter
was opened. Again this indicator would indicate only a possible identi-
fication since KKB under "Loc" indicates California. In this instance
upon request, identifying the HUNTER report number and referencing
both A57D23U and 57D18 mumbers, the outer envelopes and their con-
tents will be reproduced and furnished to you.

7. Normal service of either of the above requests will be 24 hours.
In an emergency we could service the request in a few minutes.

for(KROVAN,
8. If your first request had been for(KR
or P. KROVAN,
or Paraskoviya KROVAN) located in the western section of the
Ukrainian SSR) you would have initially received the photograph of
the envelope. Likewise, in the second instance, if your request had
3
SECRET

SECRET
been for ESTERSON, or R. ESTERSON, or Rose ESTERSON located
in Chicago, or Illinois, you would initially have received photographed
copies of the envelope and its contents.

9. In order to insure most efficient servicing of your request,
it is suggested that you submit trace requests as follows: List the
last name first with any known first and given names or initials, and
address including state, city and street, if known. If an exact address
is not known, a probable state or section will be helpful but is not
required. The same would apply to the (USSR) The above should be
listed on duplicate 3 x 5 cards. If only a phonetic name is known,
various combinations of spellings would be appreciated, together
with any other data such as probable address or area. Where an
address is known and there are individuals, other than the subject,
at this address to whom the questioned communication might be
addressed, their names should also be given. For record purposes
and in order to facilitate our answers to your request, would you in
turn number each card as HUNTER Request No.

10. On each request will you also indicate whether the request
is for a one-time check or whether the name should be put on the
Watch List. If the latter, please indicate the duration of the Watch
List, i. e. 30, 60, 90 days, or "until cancelled". If a Watch List is
requested, you should also indicate the treatment desired when a
possible hit is made, i. e. photograph outside only; photograph
outside and contents; photograph outside, contents, and examine for
S/W or microdots. Specifically indicate any Watch List item which
should not be opened. In this connection you may also desire to give:
us a white list of correspondents of interest to you whoare not Watch
List subjects but whose mail should not be opened in the course of
our normal openings for spot-checking for operational or intelligence
information. In some instances you may desire to indicate that you
are to be informed immediately when a hit is made and prior to the
receipt of the letter by the addressee.

II. It is possible to make a special machine run of the names
of all correspondents either addressor, addressee, or both, from
any specific area in the (USSR) to the United States or to any specific
state or city in the U.S., or vice versa. There are various other
combinations that could be run, such as all letters mailed in Florida
either on a specific date or for any given period. If the above-listed
4

SECRET
or any other type of exploratory processing is desired, a presentation
of the problem will enable us to tell you immediately what we can do,
-how long it will take, and the amount of work that is involved. While
this type of service is possible, it does involve a great deal of work
and should be requested in connection with very important cases only.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR, PLANS:
Enclosures (5)
SECRET
J. Aufleston
James Angleton
(B)
...

STANDARD FORM NO, 64
Office "Memorandum
ΟΙ
FROM
: A. H. Belmont
: W. A. Branigan
CBUREAU
SUBJECT: BUREAU INFORMANT 200
:
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT.
1- Belmont
1
- Branigan
1-Litrento.
1
- Schweppe
NUME
DATE: 4-21-58
200) -PALLINON
LALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
2600 BY
DATE
SPALM
Tolo
Nichos
Boaroman
Belmond
Mason
Mohr
Parsons
Rosen
Tamm
Nease
(Bureau Informant 200) is the symbol number designated Winterrowd
Tele. Room
for information furnished by CIA to the Bureau from its coverage Hello Ro
of mail going to and from the USSR) This designation was approvedandy
in your memorandum to Mr. Boardman' dated 2-6-58. That memo pointed out
the willingness of CIA to furnish us any information obtained from this
coverage which we felt would be of interést to us. That memo recommended
that Liaison effect arrangements with CIA so that we could review
information obtained from that coverage...

SFICE
CIA is furnishing us with certain of the results of the
coverage of Soviet mail under the caption "Project Hunter. Each report
received isabeled with a report number, for example, Hunter Report
# 19
:

The reports received are reviewed in the Soume (Soume) Unit. When
the information fails to indicate which Section or Unit 'would have a
logical interest in the report, the names involved will be searched
for identifiable information. Then we can locate no such information,
a case will be opened if deemed warranted. The objectives of those
investigations will be the ide identification of persons of pro-Soviet
sympathies whose dealings with the Russians are of a security or
intelligence interest, the identification of those individuals who
might present logical "hostage" possibilities which could be exploited
by the Soviets and the identification of any (Soviet) individual in the
U.S. who has indicated weakness or dissatisfaction, a situation which
the Bureau might exploit for defection or double agent purposes.

Investigations in the field would include a check of office
indices and logical sources and informants in order to establish the
subject's background, activities, sympathies and the strategic
character of his employment. This could culminate in recommendations
for interview to clarify certain points not established by investigation
and to determine whether the present activities of the subject are
inimical to the best interests of the U.S., provided available infor-
mation does not dictate against such interview and provided the
interview can be conducted without compromising (Bureau Informant 200

Information from Bureau Informant 200 would be forwarded to
the field, personal attention SAC, utilizing the following or similar
20y phraseology: "Information has been received from Bureau Informant 200
REC 11 (105-93089-9
105-67845)
58 MAY 8 1958
HITS:cug
All Supervisors SEREC 11
BRANIGAN
A

Memorandum to Mr. Belmont
Re: BUREAU INFORMANT 200
105-67845 5-6784

JFR
a most sensitive and reliable source, indicating that John Doe has been
in direct contact with....." ....." The contents of the Hunter Report should
then be summarized as necessary and paraphrased. Following the
reporting of information found in Bufiles on the subject, and
instructions regarding the investigation to be conducted a paragraph
as follows should also be added: "You are being cautioned that infor-
mation obtained from Bureau Informant 200 is not to be disseminated
outside the Bureau and should not be set forth in any investigative
reports. Information from this informant should be utilized for lead
purposes. only. You must avoid any statement concerning the scope of
the coverage in effect. in this instance and under no circumstances
is the subject or any unauthorized person to become aware that we have-
knowledge of his contact with a person in Russia)"

In those instances where an opened or closed case file an aj FR
person mentioned in a Hunter Report is located at the Bureau, the
Hunter Report will be forwarded to the appropirate Section Chief or
Supervisor for his information and any action he deems necessary. Said
Supervisor might desire to advise the field in the manner-described
above or place a brief, paraphrased version of the Hunter Report into
the subject's main file for information purposes.
RECOMMENDATION:

In view of the extreme sensitivity of this source, the
knowledge of the same is to be confined to a need-to-know basis.
Therefore, within the Domestic Intelligence Division the Section
Chiefs of the Nationalities and Intelligence Section, the Internal
Security Section, and the Subversive Control. Section will be advised
of the above procedure for their personal information. All supervisors
in the Espionage Section will also be informed of this procedure.
-2
-

OPTIONAL FORM NO. TO
UNITED STATES GOVLENT
Memorandum
TC
Calu
Loach
Ενότιο
Malone
TO
:
MR. A. H. BELMONT
DATE: March 10, 1961
Rosen
Tevel
Trotter
Tele. Room
FROM
MR. D. E. MOORE
cc) Mr. Parsons
Ingram
Gandy
Mr. Conrad m
SUBJECT:
HUNTER P
ESPIONAGER
JFS
DATE 10/26/10 BY
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
Mr. Belmont
Mr. D. E. Moore La
Mr. Branigan
Mr. W. D. Stewart
Hunter is CIA's sensitive project involving the re-
view of mail going to the (Soviet Union), CIA makes available
✓ to us results of their analysis relative to this project.
(C
XOC
.

T
On 3-9-61 during a conterence on Soviet illegal. es-
viet)
pionage activities between Special Agents (Papich, Litrento,
Duckett and it and Messrs. Angleton, Horton and Hunt) of CIA, we
I were advised that C IA has now established a laboratory in
New York in connection with this project which can examine cor-
respondence for secret writing, micro dots and possibly codes.
He said the laboratory is fully equipped and they would be glad
to make its facilities available to us if at any time we desire
an examination of this nature to be made in NYC and time was of
the essence and would not permit the material to be brought to
our Laboratory in Washington, D.C. We expressed our appreciation
for the offer and said that in the event we desired to utilize
their laboratory, we would contact them.
ACTION: For information.
til
JFK
لا
DEM:td.(7).
এম
5. J. Papich
SA S
advised 4/19/61
another mods!
That Hunter material
ce NY Lab
will increase about JFK
2015 0% since
pow establishe
WDA 4/21/61
@)
EX114
PERE
写
REC 22 (105-93589-25)
REC-22
7. MAR 23 196

0-14f (Rev. 10-16-70)
SECRET
ROUTE IN ENVELOPE
Federal Bureau of Investigation
March 10, 1972
ENCLOSURE
Director
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D. C. 20505
BY CIA COURIER
ATTENTION: Deputy Director for Plans, JAMES JAMES ANGLETON
RE: PHUNTER
Dear Sir:
HUNTER PROJECT
FRU
1. For your information, I am enclosing communications which may be
of interest to you.
:

2. It will be appreciated if you will have the investigation conducted
as requested in the enclosed memorandum and furnish the results.

3. No further investigation is contemplated with regard to this matter.
زن 50-REC
l
Moments in conection 10
4. You will be advised of the pertinent developments in connection
with this inquiry.

5. Please note change in caption of this case.

6. Status of case:
Completed
Very truly yours,
Excluded from automatio
GROUP 1
downgrading and
declassification
Enc.
John Edgar Hoover
Director.
TO MAR 10 1972
Incomplete
SECRET 5.med
ИБАЖИЛЛАXKAXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Reference is made to your special notation on
Hunter Report No. 27,226,
724134.
Attached is a list of types of traffic we
would like to receive.
9ZMAR 1. 1972

M.
1 - M. S. Triplett
SECRET
1
-
W. 0. Cregar
ROUTE IN LAVLOPE
RE: PROJECT HUNTER
March 10, 1972

We are in the process of reviewing the Watch List
and will advise you of additions and deletions. The following
types of traffic have been of assistance and continue to be of
interest to us:
i

1. Current and, former Soviet exchange students, visitors,
researchers and scientists.

2. Current and former Soviet official visitors.

3. Current and former Sovtet]nonofficial visitors whose U.S
contacts are subversive, would be of interest to the Soviets
because of their access to classified data or are in a post-
tion to be of assistance to the Soviets.

4. U.S. exchange students, researchers and persons who have
been in the USSR with American exhibitions and delegations.
Te

5. Current and former U.S. students and researchers in the
USSE who do not come under official East-West Exchange Program,
This does not include the short-term student tours but does
Include individuals who are in the USSR for some time.
would, of course, like to receive any traffic on individuals
who are there for a short time if they have been sponsored by
subversive organizations and subversive individuals or have
received special invitations or special treatment from the
Soviets
6. We have no interest in the hundreds of legitimate travelers
who visit the USSR) on regular tours or go to see relatives.
We
do have an interest in travel and contacts involving persons on
the Watch List; known communists, New Left activists, extremists
and other subversives; suspected and known espionage agents;
individuals known to be of interest to the Soviets because of
their specialized knowledge or work on classified matters;
individuals who appear to have been compromised, and persons
who meet with Soviets connected with organizations known to
specialize in propaganda of in obtaining information regarding
the U.S.
&

7. Communist Party and front organizations (such as American
Russian Institute,
Russian Institute, National Council of of [American-Soviet Friendship]
and Ukrainian News"), extremist and New Left organizations.
105-93089
M.E. Triplett met
102-930
(4)
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatio
Original to CIA, Att'n James Angleton by downgrading and
CIA courier 3-10-72. SECRET CURE
declassification

SECRET
☑
8. Protest and peace organizations, such as People's Coalition
for Peace and Justice, National Peace Action Committee and
Women's Strike for Peace.

9. Communista, Trotskyites and members of other Marzist-
Leninist, subversive and extremist groups, such as the Black
Panthers, White Panthers, Black Nationalist and Liberation
groups, Venceremos Brigade, Venceremos Organization, Weathermen,
Progressive-Labor Party, Worker's Student Alliance, Students
for a Democratic Society, Resist, Revolutionary Union and other
New Left groups. This would include persons sympathetic to the
(Soviet Union, North Korea, North Vietnam and Red China. Far East

10. Cu (Cubans and pro-Castro) individuals in the U.S.

11. Traffic to and from (Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands)
showing anti-U.S. or subversive sympathies.

12. Contacts with the (Soviet Red Cros
nade or received by individuals.
Cross), particularly those

13. (Soviet Committee for Cultural Relations with Compatriots
Abroad) (contacts with emigres and emigre organizations in U.S.).

14. Traffic between U.S. nationals and aliens in the J.S.
with individuals attending such institutions as the (Central
Komsomol School and Friendsh
Friendship) University. This would include
the (USSR)
any aliens in the U.S. who have previously been in the USSR)
as students.

NOTE: Above sent in answer to special notation on Hunter Report.
27,226, Item 72A13AM ((105-67845-38542)) reading as follows: "Your
30 October 1962 statement of HUNTER Project requirements does not
cover 'contacts such as the one reflected in attached item. Please
advise whether you wish to see traffic from U.S. nationals or aliens
temporarily residing in the U.S. (e.g., foreign students) to rela-
tives or friends studying at (Friendship) University or similar
institutions. You may wish to take this opportunity to review, and
possibly revise, your above