124-10213-10483

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 6/12/201

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10213-10483
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-121229-1

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 05/27/1963
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: LCA, ASSOC, CUBA IN ARMS
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: IB
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/19/1998
OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS:
v9.1
NW 50953 DocId:32294707 Page 1

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
CENTRAL INTELIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title
18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY Caba
REPORT NO. 00-K-3,262,509
SUBJECT Frente Interno de Unidad Revolucionaria DATE DISTR. 27 May 63
(FIUR)
NO. PAGES 2
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR REFERENCES Guide 303-BR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
DATE OF 25 Apr 63 and earlier IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT the BRACKETS
PLACE & ---/25 Apr 63 and earlier KP 11-18-97
DATE ACQ. SLDIKESR
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION 1-3-48
SOURCE: Cuban national presently residing in the United States.J

Source was a prominent sports writer and a very active member of the 8
Havana Yacht Club. He is presently employed as a reporter on a large
newspaper and is in close contact with Cuban exile leaders.

[This report was developed by an AFNIN Air Force representative assigned
to the office of preparation.)

TON FILE IN THE CIA LIBRARY is a copy, in Spanish, of the Frente Interno
de, Unidad Revolucionaria - FIUR.]
1. A Cuban exile, Julio V. Leal, residing at 4823 East 8th Court, Hialeah, 
Florida, claims to be the US Delegate of the "Cuban Government in Arms":
He also claims that he received a copy of a proclamation prepared by
members of the FIUR, in Cuba, and was authorized to release it to
publicity sources. He provided me with a copy of the FIUR declaration.
[See On File Material.)
2. On 25 Apr 63 Leal furnished me with a copy of a document, in Spanish,
which showed the appointments to executive and cabinet posts of the
Provisional Government of the Republic of Cuba in Arms. The names are:
President To be announced at a later date for reasons of security.
Vice-President Dr Gustavo Cuerve Rubio
Premier Dr Jose Manuel Gutierrez
Secretary to the President To be announced at a leter date.
Minister of State Dr Carlos Prie Socarras
Minister of Communications - Luis Conte Aguero
Minister of of Transportation - Dr Aureliano Sanchez Arango
Minister of Commerce Abel Mestre
Minister of Justice Dr Ricardo-Rafael Sardinge
Minister of Interior - Dr Manuel Antonio de Varona
Minister of Education - Dr Jose Ignacio Lazaga
Minister of Public Works - Ing Manuel Ray
Minister of Health - Now in Cuba, name not revealed for security reasons. 5
Minister of Defense - Now in Cuba, name not revealed for security reasons. 4
Minister of Labor Now in Cuba, name not revealed for security reasons, 3
Copy to mm/14/WF0/5.. 1
ST
XEROX by routing slip for
info action dangerous 105- NEW
JUN 4 1963 date 6-5-63
by van/st 2/03/28
copies made
GROUP 1
C-O-N-F-ID-E-N-T-1-A-LHQ bExcluded from automatic
ARMY NAVY AIR FBI AEC HSCA re 3-144 request downgrading and
declassification
INFORMATINEPORT INFORMATION REPORT
NW 50953 DocId:32294707 Page 2
ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED
HERE IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE:/4/95 SPOMAC/Ge
(JFK)

33 CARD PDS
28 9:03 AM 263
SECTION, FBI
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L 213-10483
00-K-3,262,509
Rec'd' in Rec
6-6-63
Minister of Agriculture Now in Cuba, name not revealed for security
reasons.
Minister of Public Housing - To be announced at a later date.

The following individuals have been named Ministers without portfolio and
subsecretaries:
Vaal REC-54 105 121229
Jose Ignacio Rivero Humberte Medrano. MCT-3
Manuel Reyes 11 JUN5 1903-
Jorge Castellanos Fermin Peinado
Lauraeano/Batista Falla Melchor Gaston F23
Agusto Fernandez Conde Manuel Fernandez
Juan Manuel Salvat Enrique Huertas
67 JUN 13-1963
Designated Ambassador to Washington - Dr Guillermo Belt
OAS Delegate Dr Herminio Portell Wila 
3. I doubt that Leal has been designated as the US representative for FIUR,
and do not believe that the documents he gave me originated in Cuba. I
suspect that another group of exiled Cuban politicians wrote the document
in the US, and are trying to get national publicity in publicity in order to get support.
I have recently heard that Eloy Gutierrez menoyo has been added to the list
of Cabinet appointments. I doubt very much that Gutierrez and Ray would be
fully accepted by the majority of Cubans in exile.
CUBA
-end-

NW 50953 DocId:32294707 Page 3
C-O-N-F-TD-E-N-T-I-A-L
