124-90137-10230 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 4/16/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90137-10230
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-30972-68

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ
TO: NO
TITLE:
DATE: 09/23/1960
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
 PETROS MOUTSOS
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; IC
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: MEMO

1 - Mr. Nasca
SAC, New Orleans 9/23/60
Director, FBI 5(105-30972)-68 CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECOR,
RELEASE OF CONFIRMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT.
EX- 105
PETROS MOUTSOS
MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION CONCERNING EXCEPT BRACLETS
(NATIONALITIES INTELLIGENCE) KP 11-17-97
JM 6-23-98
The captioned individual was utilized by CIA as an
informant in the communist-dominated Greek Maritime Organization (5)
OENO. During the past year his usefulness to CIA has practically
expired, primarily because of the subject's desire to remove (5)
himself from the OENO atmosphere.
On September 13, 1960, CIA advised that the subject
is currently a crew member of the SS "Radnor," which is scheduled
to dock at New Orleans within the next two weeks. CIA has had
clandestine meetings with Moutsos and is endeavoring to work out(s)
an arrangement whereby he can travel to Cuba and serve as a
source of information. 15 In order to arrange for such travel, it
will be necessary for Moutsos to jump ship in New Orleans. This
will be done with the approval of INS. CIA will then hold (5)
conferences with Moutsos and the subject will thereupon proceed
to Havana (under a cover being established for him(s)
Prior to leaving for Havana, Moutsos will endeavor to
establish contact with his wife, Angela Boyer, who has a communist
background. This marriage was actually promoted in order to improve
subject's position in the OENO. The subject has been separated from
his wife for a lengthy period although she has indicated she desires
to live with the subject again. CIA hopes that a resumption of(s)
relations between the two will help Moutsos in establishing worthwhile
contacts in communist circles in Cuba.(5)

This is being furnished for your information and under
no circumstances should any of this data be furnished to anyone
outside the Bureau. Any pertinent information received concerning
the subject should, of course, be promptly furnished to the Bureau,

1 New York (105-15613)
1 Baltimore (134-571)
1 100-398547 (Angela Boyer)
VHN:wmt:kać(7)
MAILED 25
SEP 23 1960
COMM-FBI
MAIL ROOM TELETYPE UNIT
SECRET
12-10-97
CLASSIFIED BY 5648 SLO/RSP
DECLASSIFY ON: 20
(JFK) J

8/9/9/9/63rd/gel
Classified by 990
Decessity on 211,326
(56/850/GL-3/29/95-JFc)
