2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 4/14/201

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10281-10028
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-80750-4563

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SHRODER, R. I.
TO: ROSEN
TITLE:
DATE: 03/15/1967
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: [Restricted]
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS:

NW 50953 DocId:32302308 Page 1

SECRET
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

TO: Mr. Rosen DATE: March 15, 1967
FROM: I. Shroder
SUBJECT: COMMUNIST PARTY OF VENEZUELA CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) VENEZUELA KIDNAPING

This relates to information received from CIA indicating the possibility that the Communist Party of Venezuela may attempt to kidnap the child of a CIA employee Thomas Keogh. No investigation is being conducted by us and appropriate dissemination has previously been made.

At our suggestion, through liaison with CIA, fingerprints and photographs have been obtained and were furnished to SA W. O. Cregar by Mrs. Jane Roman of CIA on 3/10/67. This material is being made part of this file for possible use in the event of a kidnaping. Photographs and fingerprints are of the following individuals: Joseph Edward Keogh; Thomas Patrick Keogh, Jr.; Christina Margarita Keogh; Elizabeth Teresa Keogh; Francis Xavier Keogh; Thomas Patrick Keogh, III, and Maria Rita Keogh.

This matter has been coordinated with the Identification Division and it is recommended that this memo and attachment be sent directly to SA Carl Volker, Room 4125, IB, in order that the fingerprints may be promptly classified and filed.

Enclosure: ST-114

Fingerprints of following detached and file.
MARIA RITA KEOGH
EDWARD JOSEPH KEOGH
CHRISTINA MARGARITA KEOGH
ELIZABETH TERESA KEOGH
FRANCIS XAVIER KEOGH
THOMAS PATRICK KEOGH JR.
THOMAS PATRICK KEOGH III

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR, RELEASE OF INFORMATION IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT FOR THE BRACKETS

SECRET

NW 50953 DocId:32302308 Page 2
