124-10212-10337

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 5/1/2015

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10212-10337

RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-401762-2ND NR 35

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO : DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 02/02/1960
PAGES: 5
SUBJECTS: RCF, SHF, EMP, BKG, TRA, CP ACT, ADMIN, INSTR
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: IB; 1C; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/21/1998
OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA, INDEFINITE
COMMENTS: INC MEMO

v9.1 13
NW 50953 DocId:32294061 Page 1

- Liaison Section
- Mr. Floyd

100-339235
100-401762L
Date: Debruary 11, 1960
Fron: Director
Central Intelligence Agency
CIA HAS NO OROTION TO
DECLAR
OR
RELEGENSATION,
IN THIS DOCUMENT. EVEept Brackers
Jm 10-6-97
Attentions Deputy Director, Plans
Subject: SUSAN HEILIG FRANK
SECURITY MATTER
10/12/92/SP8MA/GCL
Classified
VICHARD CYRIL FRANK
Declassiyon CADE(JPL)
SECURITY MATTER - C

ALL INFORMATION CUP Α
HEKEIN IS UNCLANSAN LED
EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN
OTHERWISE
Reference is made to your letter dated February 2,
1960, concerning the captioned individuals, your file
CSCI-3/758,444.
(u)

Provided the following change is made, dissemination
of the data set out on page two of referenced memorandum to
(the Suiss Federal Polichopill not interfere with the intelligence
and investigative responsibilities of this Bureau. The last
sentence on page two of the memorandum should be changed to
read as follows:

YELLOW
DUPLICATE
FEB 11
MAILED
"He is knoun to have received Communiet literature;
We believed to have made financial contributions to
the Communist Party in the U.S., and there is informa-
tion to indicate Communist Party membership on his
Aert as late as 1957.

This matter has been referred to the Legal Attaches
in London, Foris, and Tokyo to alert appropriate security
services concerning possible travel of the Franke in England,
France, and Japan.

2 - New York (100-42479)(100-107383)(Enclosure)
1 - London (Enclosures - 3) See note Legats, London, Paris,
1 - Paris (Enclosures - 3) ToRiome, and SAC, New York, page,
1 - Tokyo (Enclosures - 3)
1- Foreign Liaison Unit (Route through for review)
NOE ON YELLOW, PAGE 3.
WHF:1mk 11-13-97
CLASSIFIED DY 5668 SLO/NSR
53 FEB 181960

ORIGINAL FILED IN
UNRECORDED
(TFL)
NW 50953 DocId:32294061 Page 2
SECRET

Director
Central Intelligence Agency
(4)

It would be appreciated if your Agency would furnish
this Bureau any pertinent information received concerning
possible travel of the subjects to Communist China and concerning
their presence in China. Should your Agency receive information
that subjects plan to travel in England, France, or Japan, it
would be appreciated if you would advise the appropriate Legal
Attache in London, England; Paris, France; or Tokyo, Japan. Qu

ATTENTION LEGAL ATTACHES LONDON, PARIS, AND TOKYO, AND
SAC NEW YORK:
•92(4)

A Photostat of referenced Central Intelligence Agency
(CIA) memorandum is enclosed for all. It is possible that Paris
may receive inquiries regarding the subjects through Swiss sources.
In referenced memorandum CIA did not identify its (official Swisss)
source. This identification subsequently given to Bureau via
Liaison. The Bureau approved CIA's furnishing this information
to the Swiss Federal Police inasmuch as CIA had conducted active
investigation regarding subjects in Switzerland(s)

Also enclosed for each Legal Attache are one copy of
a memorandum dated 11-26-58 concerning Richard Cyril Frank and
one copy of a memorandum dated 1-26-60 concerning Susan Heiligman
Frank. In view of reported plans of subjects to travel in
England and France, and since it is anticipated that they may
travel in the vicinity of Japan prior to their return to this
country, the Legal Attaches at London, Paris, and Tokyo should
alert sources in England, France, and Japan concerning the
Franks' contemplated travel in Europe and their possible plans
to travel in China. Background information concerning the
subjects set forth on page two of enclosed CH letter, as
corrected in paragraph two of this letter may be made available
[to your sourcessis deemed advisable. For your additional
information, both subjects are on the Security Index.

New York remain alert in this matter and submit any
information received concerning the subjects in a form suitable
for dissemination. If not already done, New York submit FD-122's
tabbed "Out of the country.
NW 50953 DocId:32294061 Page 3
SECRET

RA

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE/0/12/94 BY S
15/10/12/940/pmse
TO: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich
FROM: Deputy Director (Plans)
SUBJECT: Susan and Richard Frank

2. FEB 1960 mg/4-1,2

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLARONGOR
RELEGENSATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT. Im 10-6-97
EXCEPT BRACLETS IN HAND
WRITTEN NOTATION
SUDJILSR
6-16-98
(JFL)
1. In response to your 22 December communication
(File No: 100-339235, 100-401762) we wish to inform you
that we have received the following from an official
Sviss source:

"Richard Frank (born 1922), U.S. citizen, film
technician, resident of New York, arrived at the
Hotel Savoy in Bern with his wife Susan on 10 December
1959; they stayed there until 12 December leaving for
Zurich. Frank inquired for a flight ticket to Prague
from Zurich. While in Bern, Frank had contact with
the Chinese Communist Embassy on two occasions; he or
Mrs. Frank having called at the Embassy. No information
is available on the nature of these contacts, nor do we
have more detailed personalia."

2. We have observed that persons desiring to travel to
Commmist China from Switzerland frequently fly via Prague.

3. The following summary has been drawn from material
which you have provided us on Subjects (see NY 100-42479,
NY 100-107383 and Bureau 100-339235). Please advise if we
may pass this summary to our Swiss source, but without
revealing that your organization supplied the information
contained in it:

(5)["Swiss source" is Seveso
Federal Policj-per
Coris with mis Roman, Ca
2/9/60

1100-401762
NOT RECORDED
128 FEB 14 1960

DN-339
ED-IN
NW 50953 DocId:32294061 Page 4
