2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 4/9/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10326-10104
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-99724-78

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: BRENNAN
TO: SULLIVAN
TITLE:
DATE: 01/13/1967
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS: BUREAU SOURCE 100 (ANGLETON)
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: IB
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS:

NW 50953 DocId:32313176 Page 1

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27
5016-106
UNITED STATES GO RNMENT
Memorandum
Mr. W. C. Sullivan SECRET
FROM : D. J. Brennan, Jr.
DATE: 1/13/67
Classifed by SPYERWIKEA
Declassify on: OADR
C.A1435-1826
SUBJECT: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA)
IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT BRACKETS
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

INFORMATION RECEIVED FROM JAMES ANGLETON

Torson
DeLoach
Mohr
Wick
Casper
Callahan
Conrad
Felt
Gale
Win Sullivan
Tavel
Trotter
Tele. Room

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS ONCLASSIFIED
EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN
OTHERWISE

In 1953 we created a separate control file
(62-99724) under the caption," CIA - James_Angleton," for
the purpose of retaining copies of certain types of
memoranda disseminated to us by James Angleton, Chief
Counterintelligence Staff, CIA. We believe that it is no
longer necessary to maintain this control file.

In the way of background, the control file was
created to give us the opportunity of closely monitoring
Sour liaison with Angleton on a variety of matters which were
not reported through normal CIA channels. CIA Directors
permitted Angleton to run several intelligence projects,
many of them with the Israeli Intelligence Service. He was
given authority by CIA to handle these projects and report
only to the Director, CIA. He was given authority to
disseminate to the FBI on all matters of interest to us.
In 1953 we worked out an agreement where Angleton disseminated
to us, and we attributed the information to Bureau Informant 100
The field was given appropriate instructions regarding the
handling and reporting of the information. This procedure is
still in existence and is operating satisfactorily.

The information disseminated by Angleton is_filed
in the case file_of_an_individual or an organization. The
control file consists of copies of communications already
recorded in separate case files. There has been little or
no occasion to use the control file, and its usefullness at
this point can be characterized as being obsolete. 62-99724-78
RECOMMENDATION:
It is recommended that it no longer be necessary
to place copies of Bureau Informant 100 material in the control
file. The file will continue to be used for retention of mail
of a policy nature.
By 1)
of Destroyed
62-99724
1 Mr. De Loach
1 - Mr. Tavel
1 - Mr Sullivan
1 - Mr. Cotter
1 Liaison
- Mr. Papich

NW 50953 DocId:32313176 Page 2
