124-10326-10098

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 4/9/2015

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10326-10098
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-99724-1

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: KEAY
TO: BELMONT
TITLE:
DATE: 06/10/1953
'PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS: BUREAU SOURCE 100 (ANGLETON)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS:

v9.1
NW 50953 DocId:32313170 Page 1

STANDARD FORM NO. 64
Office Memorandum
: UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
TO : MR. A. R. BELMONT
FROM : V. P Keay
SUBJECT: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
INFORMATION RECEIVED FROM JAMES ANGLETON
DATE: June 10, 1953

Tolson
Ladd
Nichols
Callahan
Belmont
Clegg
Glavin
Harbo
Rosen
Tracy
Geary
Mohe
Winterrowd
Tele. Room
Holloman
Sizoo
Nue Hipp Gandy

SYNOPSIS:

James Angleton, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) official,
is in charge of the Special Projects unit located in the Foreign (S)
Intelligence division of CIA. During past year he has been very
cooperative and has volunteered voluminous information of interest
to Bureau. At the present time he more or less falls in category
of Confidential Informant. In order to handle his material in a more
efficient and secure manner, it is being recommended that a control
file be created. Section Chiefs are also being alerted regarding the
handling of information received from Angleton.

RECOMMENDATIONS:

1. It is recommended that the attached memorandum be
disseminated to all Section Chiefs of the Domestic Intelligence
Division, which sets forth instructions concerning the handling
of information transmitted to the Bureau by Angleton.

7-26-98
CV5668 SLD 18SR
LEYLAVORY ON EA16
(JFK)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTIO
DECLA 5.08 WOP
PLEASE INFORM COM

IN THIS DOC. MIENT EXCEPT BRACKETS
LEE 1-8-98
2. It is recommended that a separate control file be
created which will contain a copy of each "SP" memorandum which
Angleton furnishes the Bureau. Such copies will be maintained in
the file in numerical order and it will not be necessary to index
the names. It is suggested that this file be entitled, "Central.
Intelligence Agency - James Angleton."

10/5X88
Classified by SPYEUW/KFA
Declassify on: DADR LA.F88-1826

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HERES POLICE INFORMATION
IS CLASSIFIED
OTHERWISE
DETAILS:

James Angleton, a CIA official, is in charge of a section
referred to as Special Projects, which is a part of CIA Foreign
Intelligence JUN 12 1953

Med. 56 JUN 23 1953
SJP:lw
Attachment
1 - Mr.
Mr. Wannall

NW 50953 DocId:32313170 Page 2

Memo to Mr. Belmont
Re: Central Intelligence Agency
Information Received from James
Angleton

Intelligence division. Angleton handles special cases of a various
nature and he is usually given considerable freedom and leeway in
directing the operations of his unit. In general, he is responsible
only to the Director of CIA. He has numerous foreign sources and
channels for developing information. The primary source is the Israeli
Intelligence Service. In addition to this, he is in contact with
Jay Lovestone, who periodically makes available to Angleton copies
of reports which Lovestone has received from American Federation of
Labor representatives throughout the world. These representatives
are associated with the Free Trade Union Committee, which is sub-
sidized by the CIA. Angleton also has independent sources in the
intelligence services of France, Italy, Greece, and Great Britain.
On occasion he utilizes sources in the Vatican. Some of the men
under his control are on various foreign assignments in Europe and
are responsible only to him. Most of them are traveling under.
commercial cover.

During the past several months Angleton has been very
cooperative with the Bureau. He has volunteered voluminous infor-
mation of interest to the Bureau and he has followed Bureau leads
in an effective manner. Much of the information which Angleton
has furnished appears in the raw form, that is, it consists of the
actual reports received from Angleton's sources. This has been of
advantage because the Bureau has been in a position to better evaluate
the information instead of waiting for the delay and processing through
normal channels in the CIA. In addition to information regarding
security matters furnished by Angleton, he has also been of valuable
assistance by keeping the Liaison Agent apprised of administrative
changes and reorganization within the CIA. Angleton is thoroughly
informed regarding the foreign intelligence activities of his agency
and he frequently clarifies matters which the CIA_sometimes camouflages
with some of its cloak and dagger techniques.

For your information, Angleton was instructed by General
Walter Bedell Smith, while he was still Director of the CIA, to
cooperate fully with the Liaison Agent and was told that he,
Angleton, could disseminate any information he saw fit. This policy
has continued under Allen Dulles.

Since the volume of information received from Angleton
has increased the Liaison Agent has endeavored to encourage Angleton
to establish some uniformity in the dissemination of information to

NW 50953 DocId:32313170 Page 3
2

Memo to Mr. Belmont
Re: Central Intelligence Agency,
Information Received from James
Angleton

the Bureau, particularly with regard to that information which he
receives from the Israeli Intelligence Service. Angleton is now
furnishing the Liaison Agent blank memoranda which are dated,
captioned, and which carry a control number; for example, "SP-1."
This number will serve as a ready reference when some question
comes up within the Bureau or the CIA. The Liaison Agent will make
an appropriate notation on each memorandum indicating that the
documents emanate from Angleton. It is believed advisable to set
up a control file containing a copy of each document furnished by
Angleton. This can be done in a manner similar to the arrangement
effected in handling reports received from [Stott.]

In view of the above, Angleton more or less falls into
the category of a Confidential Informant. He furnishes information
of a sensitive nature and it is, therefore, believed that when
disseminating his data, he should be protected as a source. Up to
date Supervisors have been handling this information in a secure
manner; however, since the volume of data received from Angleton
has increased, it is believed desirable to alert all Section Chiefs
regarding the handling of information received from Angleton.

NW 50953 DocId:32313170 Page 4
3
