2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 4/17/2011

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90137-10468

RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-89457-9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ
TO : NY
TITLE:

DATE: 06/30/1961
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS:
CURRENT STATUS:
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA : 
COMMENTS:
CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
JORGE BELIARD
PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Confidential
1B; 1C; 4
Redact
09/28/1998
INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
AT

NW 50953 DocId:32337702 Page 1

1 pich
1 James
AIRTEL
6-30-61
To: SAC, New York (134-5609)
From: Director, FBI (105-89457)
NY 3186-PS
REC-85
CIA, by liaison, advised Bureau of desire to contact captioned [PSI] in connection with its Cuban operations.
CIA of opinion [PSI] is in position to assist in the establishment of courier routes between U.S. and its contacts in Cuba Contact of [PSI] by CIA being held in abeyance pending Bureau's approval.
Bureau's position in this matter flexible.
We can refuse CIA authority to contact [PSI] or we can let CIA operate on its own. We can also serve as intermediary between the PSI and CIA.
Promptly contact [PSI] and discreetly ascertain if he is in position and willing to assist in establishing courier routes.
Do not advise [PSI] of CIA's connection at this time.
For information, CIA believes [PSI] able to establish such a system because of his employment with Cubana Airlines in New York City, and fact he is in contact with persons regularly traveling to Cuba.
Furnish Bureau results of your contact with [PSI] In event [PSI] is in position to assist in the establishment of a courier system and willing to do so, you should furnish your observations concerning PSI's proposed use in this matter.
FEJ:eg

NOTE: PSIis Station Manager of Cubana Airlines at Idlewild Airport in New York City. He has been under development by New York Office since November, 1960, and has furnished data concerning operations of Cubana Airlines and personnel employed by Cubana. In addition

CONTINUANCE OF NOTE ON PAGE TWO

NW 50953 DocId:32337702 Page 2

Re: To SAC, New York (NY 3186-PS
CONTINUANCE OF NOTE:

He has made available copies of incoming and outgoing manifests of Cubana flights between New York and Havana.
New York has pointed out that PSI has not furnished data of unusual value; but because of his position, has a good potential.
CIA advised Liaison Agent Papich it would not contact PSI until it had received authority to do so from Bureau.
Before allowing CIA to make contact with PSI, it is believed it would be best for our interests to determine if PSI can actually assist CIA.
If he is in position to assist that Agency, we will then consider what stand to take in this matter.

NW 50953 DocId:32337702 Page 3
