124-90137-10488 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 4/17/201
Identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90137-10488

RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR SEE TITLE

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
FROM: CIA
TO: HQ
TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE: 07/27/1961
PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS:
CURRENT STATUS:
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
[Restricted]
PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
Secret
1B; 1C
Redact
09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1 17
NW 50953 DocId:32337722 Page 1

SECRET
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
FBI INFO 7-10-98
CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/KSR 27 JUL 1961
TO: Director (25X16) RECEIVED FROM
Federal Bureau of Investigation (JFK) JUL 28 1981
Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich CIA SJ

FROM: Deputy Director, Plans

SUBJECT: Eduardo Espinosa y Prieto, born 24 January 1909 in Mexico City,
Mexico

1. This Agency was queried recently by the BfV (Bundesamt fuer 153-1
Verfassungsschutz Federal Agency for the Protection of the Constitution)
Germany for information on Subject. A German citizen in Bremen, suspected
of Polish Intelligence Service activities, received a $1,000.00 deposit in
his account from Espinosa.

2. Your permission is requested to pass the following information,
some of which was obtained from your files, to the German authorities:

Eduardo Espinosa
(born 24 January 1909, Mexico City, Mexico, appointed Mexican
Ambassador to Warsaw during the summer of 1960. August 1957 to
summer 1960 accredited to the United Nations Headquarters in New
York City with the rank of Ambassador as an Alternate Permanent
Delegate. During his New York City tenure, he was known to write
bank drafts to persons known to be active Communist workers. It
was suggested that he was used as a means of financing Communist
Party activities He appears to be a Soviet contact, and that his
wife, one

Tamara Espinosa, nee Pechkurova, native Russian
was reported to have been an agent of the Soviet security
services. She was admitted to Mexico in September 1947. When
Espinosa y Prieto was in Mexico, he was in close touch with the
Soviet Embassy and expedited visas for Soviet delegations. The couple
were particularly friendly with Soviet Ambassador Kapustin during
1953. Mrs. Espinosa's brother died in a Soviet prison in 1953, and
her mother still resides in the USSR./

These facts might indicate a Soviet hold over Espinosa. Various
opinions collected from persons who knew Espinosa, when he served in
Shanghai, Bogota, Mexico, Caracas, Togoland, and the U.S., vary from
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION "basically friendly to the U.S" to the following: That he had been a
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR, penetration agent in the Axis group (in Shanghai) on behalf of the
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
REC-52 105-24642-45
IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT FOR BRACKETS 123

FORM NO. 36 22 AUG 3 1961
1 NOV 55 105-24642 5
IN IPIS 1+2
KP 5-18-98
EX-
SECRET

NW 50953 DocId:32337722 Page 2

SECRET
-2-

USSR, that he was 100% pro-Communist and most dangerous, that
he has been an eagerly cooperative contact of the Soviets in
Mexico for several years, and so on. The bulk of opinions are
derogatory in nature. Petrov identified Mrs. Espinosa as an
MVD agent.

CSCI-3/766,521

NW 50953 DocId:32337722 Page 3
SECRECSEL
