124-90060-10015 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 4/24/201
Identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90060-10015
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 163-15064-1

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ
TO: PA
TITLE:

DATE: 07/12/1966
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: LUCIEN CONEIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1 4
NW 50953 DocId:32327266 Page 1

8-8-98
Bolors 391
MAILED 6
CLASSIFIED BY 5668
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X /
(JFK)
JUL 131
31966
COMM-FBI

Lat, Paris (163-1071) 7/12/66
EX-103 2 - Orig & 1
Director, FBI (163-15064) /SECRET 1 - Yellow
1 - Liaison
1 - Mr. Flemister
LUCIEN CONEIN
FPC
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED,
EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN
Reurlet 6/2/66. OTHERWISE

Bufiles reveal that the name Lucien Emile Conein,
born 11/29/19, appeared in a 1963 Central Intelligence
Agency (CIA) communication indicating Conein at that time
was a staff employee of the Agency. The files of the
Identification Division contain no arrest record for Lucien
Conein(U)
IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT BRACKETS
IA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
5-11-98

Through Liaison channels, Bureau determined that
Conein is currently a covert employee of CIA, under the cover
of a State Department employee. He is presently in Saigon,
South Vietnam, on an extremely xtremely sensitive assignment. CIA
has requested that no information be furnished to the French
regarding his affiliation with CIA or with regard to his
present whereabouts
For your information, Richmond determined (by a
pretext telephone call) from the present occupant of
1111 Ingelside Avenue, McLean, Virginia, who is presently
renting this residence from Conein, that the latter is a
retired Lieutenant Colonel from the U. S. Army and is
presently working and assigned to the U. S. Embassy in Saigon.

No arrest records were located for Conein in either
Arlington County or Fairfax County, Virginia. Records of the
Credit Bureau, Incorporated, of Washington, DC., reveal a
credit report dated 9/21/65, indicating that Lucien Conein,
of 1111 Ingelside Avenue, McLean, Virginia, was then married
to Ebjette and divorced from Carmen (last nam, not-shown).
AP
In view of CIA's request, under no circumstances
should any information be furnished to the French concerning
subject's present affiliation with CIA or his whereabouts.
You may furnish the French the results of the credit and
criminal checks as noted above. If the French raise the (U)
Tolson
DeLoach
Mohr
Wick
Casper
Callahan
Conrad
F'elt
Gale
3311
2- St. Louis (Enclosure)
Foreign Liaison Unit (detached)
RosenHCE: jkmm
Sullivan
A
Tavel A
Trotter
Tele. Room
Holmes
Gandy
SECRET
MAIL ROOM
TELETYPE UNIT
10/24/94
Classified by so
Declassifon: OADR
CONTINUED OVER
NW 50953 DocId: 32327266 Page 2

Letter to Paris
RE: LUCIEN CONEIN
FPC
SECRE

question of subject's whereabouts, you should inform them
that inquiries to date reveal no information concerning his
present whereabouts. You may advise the French that Conein's
military service record is being reviewed for any pertinent
information.
St. Louis should promptly locate and review
Conein's military service record. According to Army sources
in Washington, D. C., Conein's military service record was
transferred to the U. S. Army Records Center, St. Louis,
on 6/30/62. His military serial number was either 01320769
or 01322769. Furnish results in letterhead memorandum.

Enclosed for St. Louis is one copy of relet.
NOTE:
Subject was convicted by a French court in 12/47*
:
to pay his wife (Monique Veber) a monthly sum of 8,000
francs (about $16) for the support of her and two children
which resulted from the marriage. Subject has never followed
the orders of the court and is currently the subject of an
investigation at the request of the Investigative Magistrate
in France. Information in the possession of the French
indicated that Conein resided at the Ingelside address and
they requested investigation by the Bureau to verify his
residence and to determine his present situation with
regard to employment and standard of living. Legat, Paris,
requested Bureau check Bufiles, Ident files, and requested...
Bureau have Richmond check credit and criminal records and
conduct discreet limited investigation to comply with the
request of the French Police.
docr
In view of CIA's request as indicated in this
letter, it is felt that under no circumstances should we
make any mention of our knowledge of subject's whereabouts.cu
* and was ordered

NW 50953 DocId:32327266 Page 3
2
SECRET
163-15064-1
