2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 5/26/201

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90092-10002
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 65-68227-649

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: NY
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 03/15/1965
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS: OXTANK
WILLIAM K. HARVEY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: RPT

DERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGAT
BIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
CLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

Date
ROBERT GLENN THOMPSON
ESP R 12/4/64

ROBERT G. THOMPSON, 1693 North Gardiner Drive,
Bay Shore, Long Island, New York, was interviewed on
December 2, 1964. At the outset of the interview
THOMPSON was advised by SA PAUL BOYCE TOMPKINS that
he was not under arrest, that his meeting with the
Special Agents was strictly voluntary, and that he
could leave at any time he wished to do so. THOMPSON
was also advised that he had a right to say nothing
at all, and that anything he did say might be used in
a court of law against him. He was also advised that if
he did say anything about a crime he had a right at
any time to talk to a lawyer of his own choice or anyone
else with whom he might wish to speak before saying
anything.

The interviewing agents advised THOMPSON that
they had in their possession a list of Central Intelligence
Agency (CIA) male personnel who were assigned to the Berlin
Base of that agency during the period that THOMPSON was
assigned to OSI, Berlin. The names on this list were then
read off to THOMPSON, at which time he was asked to comment
on any names that he recognized.

THOMPSON made the following comments concerning
the individuals listed below, whose surnames he recognized.

ROBERT A ACKERMANN(S)
THOMPSON stated he recalled an individual named
ACKERMANN who had some connection with Army Intelligence
Or CIA in Berlin while THOMPSON was with OSI, Berlin. He
could recall nothing further regarding this individual nor
could he recall if he furnished any information about
ACKERMANN to STEVEN.

12/2/64 Bay Shore, LI, NY 65-22427
SAS PAUL BOYCE TOMPKINS & 12/4/64
GEORGE W. O'CONNOR: emv

3.
NY 65-22427
SECRET
WILLIAM K HARVEY
THOMPSON stated that he recalled an individual Geruanny
by the name of HARVEY whom he believes was an officer
with the 7983rd Army Unit, which THOMPSON stated was a
covert CIA outfit, or was an officer with an Army
Intelligence Unit in Berlin. THOMPSON believed that
this individual had the rank of Captain or Major, and
that he was an administrative or liaison officer.
THOMPSON stated that STEVEN, his Soviet principal, asked
him about this individual and THOMPSON told STEVEN whatever
he knew about this individual. THOMPSON advised that he
thinks he, THOMPSON, might have met this individual on
one occasion.

CLARK JUNG 
THOMPSON advised that he recalled an individual
having the last name JUNG who was a civilian employee of
the 7983rd Army Unit THOMPSON recalled a great many
details about this individual, including the fact that
he was a civilian employee of CIA in Grade GS-9 or 10.
THOMPSON believed that this individual was an "agent
handler" and furthermore, that he had some connection
with photography. THOMPSON stated that this individual
may have been a "counterfeiter of documents" or he may
have been a "bug" on photography

THOMPSON also recalled that this individual
lived on Argentinische Allee or Onkel Toms Strasse in
Berlin, Dahlem.

THOMPSON also recalled that the individual
whose last name he believes was JUNG had some sort of
an association with two German nationals, whose release
from jail in Germany, United States Intelligence had
obtained in order that their talents might be utilized
by the 7983rd Army Unit THOMPSON stated that one of
these individuals was a counterfeiter and that the other
individual was a safe-cracker. STEVEN told him this
