2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 4/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90140-10012
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 100-439769-302

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: PAPICH
TO: BRENNAN
TITLE:
DATE: 09/03/1963
PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS:
CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
PERMANENT STUDENT COMMITTEE FOR TRAVEL TO CUBA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: MEMO

---

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
UNITED STATES GC
Memoran

TO: D. J. BRENNAN

DATE: September 3, 1963

FROM: S. J. PAPICH

SUBJECT: PERMANENT STUDENT COMMITTEE FOR TRAVEL TO CUBA IS-C

Austin Horn, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), advised
the Liaison Agent on August 30, 1963, that a reliable CIA source
in Madrid, Spain, had been in contact with Mark Tischman one of
the American students who accompanied the group which recently
visited Cuba. This contact took place on August 27, 1963, at which
time Tischman volunteered the following information to the CIA
source:

Tischman identified the following students as "fellow
travelers": Joseph Rex, Elena B. Fleming, John Milton, Don Ranmann, and
Albert Maher.

Tischman referred to Levi Laub as a "communist in ideology"
but not a Party member. He stated that Phillip Luce is "a person
of Marxist-Leninist tendencies"; that Michael Brown is a Trotskyite;
that John W. Thomas is a decided partisan of the policy of Mao Tse
Tung; that Eric D. Johnston is "of communist, ideology though not a
Party member, that Clinton M. Jenks is "the son of the number three
ranking communist in California"; and that the only student in the
group who is actually a member of the Party is Allan Sheffield

ACTION: Possible C. P. member

The above information is being directed to the attention
of the Internal Security and Nationalities Intelligence Sections.

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/KSR
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

1 - Mr. Baumgardner
1 - Mr. Wannall
1 - Mr. Simpson
1 - Liaison
1 - Mr. Papich

