124-10291-10319
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 4/22/201
Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10291-10319
RECORD SERIES: HQ
• AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-117262-25, 24

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: LEG, PA
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE: 
DATE: 08/18/1965
PAGES: 7

SUBJECTS: SBE, REL, WINNER, MIRIAM FINKELMAN, AKA, PERSONAL
HISTORY AND BKG
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: INC 2 MEMO, LHM

v9.1
NW 50953 DocId: 32307179 Page 1
8

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6
UNITED STATES GORNMENT
Memorandum
TO : DIRECTOR, FBI
FROM SAC, CINCINNATI (105-3048)(C)
SUBJECT: MYRIAM FINKELMAN WINER
IS CUBA
(00: Cincinnati)
DATE: 10/6/65

SECRET

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINER
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN
OTHERWISE CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENTEXCEPT

Re Legat, Paris, letter to Bureau 8/18/65. BRACKETS
MKH 2-6-98
Enclosed for Bureau are nine copies of letterhead
memorandum with accompanying evaluation memo concerning
captioned matter. It is classified Confidential because
of the source from which the information emanated.

The source is identified as Liaison Section
SCIA] Amenian Earp
Cincinnati is closing its case se since subject is
in Spain, has never been to the U. S., and there is no
reason to believe she will come to this country within the
near future.
2-Bureau (Enc. 9) (RM)
- Cincinnati
RFM:blb
(3)

ENCLOSURE
5-30-98
CLASSIFIED BY 5468 510/KSR
DECLASSIFY C
(JFK)

REC- 43
105-117262-725.
1 OCT 7 1965

5010-108
0...
t.
*370 4/26/66 eu/ed
00177
N
01
Copy to: CIA/STATE/RAO
ONI/OSI/ACSI
By routing slip for info.
Date 10/115/65
Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Saving Plan
ز
NW 50953 DocId: 32307179 Page 2

RE: MYRIAM FINKELMAN Y WINER
1800 SOUTH TREASURE PRIVکا
Sam Benton MIAMI BEACH Brother
Francis Lyons
(4) Salomon Finkelman
Clara Delaster..
Julie Abramson
ELA
CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET
same as above
Sister - 14 Walton Street, Portland, MAINE
Brother 3105_SW_79th Avenue,
Miami, Florida
Sister Miami, Florida
Niece 57 State Road, Portland,
Maine
According to Dr. Manuel Cortina, who was formerly
acquainted with Winer in Santa Clara, she is currently
Director of English Language at the Mangold Institute in
Madrid. He has no information concerning her present address,
however, he said she is believed to be living with an
unidentified Cuban exile who was a professor in Las Villas.
According to the knowledge of the source, they are not married.
The source could not furnish any additional information
concerning Winer's activities and stated there is no
indication she will leave Spain and come to the United States
C
[
THIS IS LOANED TO YOU BY THE FBI,
AND NEITHER IT NOR ITS. CONTENTS
ARE TO BE DISTRIBUTED OUTSIDE THE
AGENCY TO WHICH LOANED.
CONFIDENTIAL
NW 50953 DocId: 32307179
Page 3

SECRED
2
911-1031

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. DEG. NO. 27
5010-106-03
TO
UNITED STATES GO RNMENT
Memorandum
: DIRECTOR, FBI
Mup/res
FROM: LEGAT, PARIS (105-3551) (RUC)
SUBJECT: MIRIAM FINKELMAN WINNER
Level
IS CUBA
(00 Cincinnati)
DATE: 8/18/65

SECRET

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
OFF WIN CHEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED 77
2FCBEL
EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN
OTHERWISE

Re Cincinnati letter to Bureau 6/29/65. S
F017

There are enclosed for the Bureau and Cincinnati
each one copy of a memorandum dated 8/9/65 prepared by the
Liaison Section (CIA) (CSC) American Embassy, Madrid, Spain,
containing background information regarding the captioned
subject
It appears that the subject is presently residing
in Madrid and is employed as the Director of English Language
at the Mangold Institute in Madrid
Madrid(4)

The Consular Section has no record of an applica-
tion for a United States visa from the subject. We have
requested that they advise us in the event a visa application
is received.
y
4
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
EXCEPT FOR BRACKETS
5-30-48
IN THIS DOCUMENT/MKH 2-6-98
Bureau (Encs. - 2) ENCLOSURE
(1 Liaison Section)
(1 - Cincinnati, 105-3048)
1 - [Paris]
NWP: eim
(5)
by
Declassify on /ABR
DOW ІНДЕГГ ΟΙΛ
BEC.D
упе 53 3 38 64.02
+ Exch
Cops to Cincinnati
1381
by routing slip for
info action
date 8-25-65
53 SEP 1
ECRET
CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUD/10/2
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X
(JFK) 4
-117262-24
REC-54 105-117.26.2
MCT-45
26
14 AUG 23 1965

NATT. SEC
521-1031

NW 50953 DocId: 32307179 Page 4

CONFIDENTIAL
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Consular Section
FROM: Liaison Section
SUBJECT: Miriam Finkleman WINNER (or WINER)
9 August 1965
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT BRACKETS
MKH 2-6-98
According to usually reliable Cuban exile sources in Madrid, the Subject SLD/152
was born in Poland on 5 February 1922; she became a Cuban citizen in 1945.
Subject arrived in Madrid, Spain, on 12 May 1963, bearing Cuban passport
#34059 issued on 24 July 1956. Her last known address in Cuba was Ronda 17,
Apt. 18, Habana.
The following is Subject's educational history:
SFIC
ALL EST STORMATION CONTAINED
1/11/2557 /

1930 to 1936 - Primary school at Ludwipol, Poland
1938 to 1942 - High school-Instituto Marianao, Habana
1942 to 1947 - University of Habana (degree in Philosophy and Letters)
1958 - University of Columbia, New York (summer school studying
German literature).

From 1956 to 1961, Subject was a professor of literature and languages
at the Central University in Santa Clara, Las Villas. She held the same po-
sition from 1961 to 1962 at the University of Habana. She reportedly speaks
English, German and Spanish fluently.

On arrival in Madrid in 1963, Subject listed the following members of
her immediate family:

Ans Winner - mother - 1800 S. Treasure_Drive, Miami Beach, Florida
Sam/Benton - brother same as above
Francis Lyons - sister - 14 Walton Street, Portland, Maine
Salomon Finkelman - brother - 3105 SW 79th Avenue, Miami, Florida
Clara Delaster - sister - Miami, Florida
Julie Abramson - niece -57 State Road, Portland, Maine.
5-30-98

According to Manuel Cortina, who was formerly acquainted with Subject in
Santa Clara, Che Subject is currently the Director of English Language at the
Mangold Institute în Madrid. He has no information concerning her present ad-
dress, however, he said Subject is believed to be living with an unidentified
Cuban exile who was a professor in Las Villas; to Source's knowledge, they are
not married. Source has no additional information concerning Subject's cur-
rent activities.

GROUP I
Excluded from
automatic downgrading
and declassification
105-117পট
LOL LOATOA
১০)
(JFK)
NW 50953 DocId:32307179 Page 5
ENCLOSURE
CONFIDENTIAL
গানঃ 220/220
Scobrez wsgee
521-10310
