OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN, REG. NO. 27
5010-106

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum SECRET

TO: Mr. W. C. Sullivan
FROM: Mr. D. J. Brennan, Jr
DATE: 3/17/65
CLASSIFIED BY 5668IB00/KSP
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X1,6
SUBJECT: BUREAU INFORMANT 200

Tolson
Belmont
Mohr
DeLoach
Casper
Callahan
Conrad
Felt
Gale
Rosen
Sullivan
Tavel
Trotter
Tele. Room
Holmes
Gandy

In 1954, a procedure was approved whereby we could attri-
bute certain information received from James Angleton, CIA, under
the symbol "Bureau Informant 100." This information, for the most
part, emanated from a Liaison arrangement which CIA maintained with
the Israeli Intelligence Service and from other sources under the
control of Angleton. Much of the information developed by Angleton
was not disseminated within CIA but he felt that the data should be
passed on to the Bureau. Allen Dulles gave him authorization to
handle dissemination in this matter. We continue to receive informa-
tion of value on a regular basis.

By SAC Letter 54-27 dated 5/25/54, we informed the field
regarding Bureau Informant 100 and issued instructions that informa-
tion from this source be described under an appropriate T symbol and
characterization. Because of the passage of time and since some
offices have had rare occasion to receive Bureau Informant 100 infor-
mation, it is believed desirable to reiterate instructions to the
field. This should be done since the Informant has been developing
information in recent months regarding the travel of U. S. citizens
to Russia via Israel. Such travelers come from various parts of the
U. S.

ACTION:
Classified by
10/28/89 SPYEKEA
Declassify du: OAD #88-1826.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN DECLASSIFIED
EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN
OTHERWISE

If approved, there is enclosed herewith a recommended SAC
letter.
Enclosure -

1 - Mr. Belmont
1 - Mr. Sullivan
1 - Mr. Wannall
1 - Mr. Branigan
1 - Mr. R. W. Smith
1 - Mr. Baumgardner
1 - Mr. Bland
1 - Liaison
1 - Mr. Papich
SJP:chs
(10)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION
AND/ORY
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

RECORDED COPY FLAKED
BRACKETS
LEEB-98

2-99724-74 ch

NW 50953 DocId:32313175 Page 2
