124-90110-10072
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 6/2/2015

Agency Information.

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90110-10072
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-114623-7

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
FROM: CIA
TO: HQ

TITLE: 

DATE: 04/09/1963
PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS: 
FRANC PECAR
JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1
NW 50953 DocId:32334079 Page 1

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGEN

WASHINGTON 25. D. C.

RECEIVED IN
APR 12 1963
LIAISON

9 APR 1963.
MEMORANDUM FOR: Director
SUBJECT
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich
: [Franc PECAR] 

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT, EX LEPT BRACKETS
KP 5-26-98

1. Reference is made to our memoranda CSCI-3/775,509, dated
29 March 1963, CSCI-3/775,572, dated 2 April 1963, and CSCI-3/775,622,
dated 4 April 1963, all with the subject as above.

2. Another office of this Agency has provided the following
additional information from Joseph MEROLA concerning Subject.

a. Subject arrived in Miami, Florida, on 4 April and resided
with Joseph MEROLA until 6 April 1963 when he was scheduled to return
to New York. Subject planned to return to Miami for the period of
12-19 April following which he would go to Vienna for a short visit,
returning to the United States about the end of April. Subject's
family will remain in the United States.

b. According to MEROLA, Subject met Assistant Attorney General
William Kenny in Miami, but MEROLA had no further details on their con-
versation except that PECAR appeared most eager to make arrangements to
stay in the United States. Subject showed MEROLA and Kenny voluminous
documentation.

3. This office is considering contacting Subject during his
visit to Vienna for the purpose of attempting recruitment to return
to Yugoslavia. An early reply regarding information available to your
Bureau concerning PECAR's activities in the United States would be
appreciated.

6 paye statement of berar fumished CIA by Burt datest 4/18/63
FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS):
FBIINFO
Classified by
Declassify on: OADR
S. Angleton
JAMES ANGLETON
APR 15 1963
(See Bufile #62-117290)
DECLASSIFIED BY 5.668 SLO/KSR
(JFK)

NW 50953 DocId:32334079 Page 2
