# 124-10284-10171
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 6/8/2015
Identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10284-10171
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-83720-1

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: BARRON, JOHN R.
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:

DATE: 12/31/1959
PAGES: 18

SUBJECTS: EPE, INTV, ARVIER, MARIA JOSEFA MENDIZABAL, AKA,
EMP, RES, ASSOC, POLIT, INTEL ACT
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/03/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF INS, CIA
COMMENTS: REFERRED TO INS

v9.1
NW 52333 DocId: 32303659 Page 1
13

FD-263 (Rev. 3-3-59).
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
SECRED
REPORTING OFFICE OFFICE OF ORIGIN DATE INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD
MIAMI MIAMY 12/31/59 10/9 - 12/28/59
TITLE OF CASE REPORT MADE BY TYPED BY
MARIA JOSEFA MENDIZABAL ARVIER, JOHN R. BARRON ems
aka Maria Mendizabal, "Nene"
Mendizabal
CHARACTER OF CASE
INTERNAL SECURITY CUBA
REGISTRATION ACT CUBA

REFERENCES: Butel to Miami, October 9, 1959. 7-9452-13
Miami letter to Director, November 4, 1959.7-9452-111
Miami report of SA JOHN R. BARRON, November 23, 1959,
captioned: UNSUBS; MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ - VICTIM,
KIDNAPPING - CONSPIRACY (Bufile 7-9452).
CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/GCL
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN
OTHERWISE
APPROVED
COPIES MADE:

11 - Bureau (RM)
(1 7-9452)
(1 109-283)
3- New York (RM)
LEADS 2 copies cade of
Conterpy and pr
for review atiBy
HSCA re reg
HSCA re reg 9グラグラフ 7
xie fe 62-117290
REQUEST OF BUREAU
The Bureau is requested to refer instant
matter to the Department for decision regarding the
subject's activities while employed as a secretary to
ex-Venezuelan president MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ and
regarding her admission that/she furnished information
to ALBERTO BAYO, JR., described in instant report,
concerning information obtained during her employment,
There exists a possible violation of the Registration
Act, over which this Bureau has jurisdiction.
SPECIAL AGENT
IN CHARGE DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION, TO 83720/
DECLASSIFICATION ANDIORS
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT. 4 JAN 6 1960,
(1-7-877- info EXCEPT TP 5 P9.B AND pq. C (BRACKETS)
1 - 62-11817 JM 6-25-97
pq.
INS, New York SLDIKSH
8-1-97
(JFK)
A-11039008) 8-15)
(2-97-300; 1-7-47
3 Natar? 13 1974 State, LIA, 62, ON), 05/
HAURNA Infed 1/12/60 A/S
OPIES DESTROYED No. A-11039008)-7-47(JFK)
4 Miami (2-97-300; 1-7-47 1-109-39)

NW 52333 DocId: 32303659 Page 2
PAGEscomercy Up
REC- 26
EX-117
SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR
ADD. DISSEMINATION
MCT-2
7-9452
UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN/09-283-
NAT. HE SEC
SECRET
A.
COVER

MM 97-300
MIAMI
SECRED
:
AT MIAMI, FLORIDA
Will report the decision rendered by the
Department.

ADMINISTRATIVE
Information copies have been furnished the
New York Office, inasmuch as the subject of this
investigation was formerly employed as a secretary
to ex-Venezuelan president MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ, whom
the New York Office is currently investigating.

This investigation is being placed in a
pending inactive status, pending departmental decision
concerning the subject's activities while she was
employed as a secretary to ex-Venezuelan president
MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ.

The Bureau is advised that investigation
appearing in this report conducted prior to October 9,
1959, was made concerning the subject inasmuch as she
was suspected of plotting against MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ
to arrange his abduction, the details of which have
been reported in reference Miami report dated November 23,
1959 (Bufile 7-9452)。

MM T-2, utilized in the details of this
report was interviewed by Special Agents JOHN R.
BARRON and WILLIAM B. HOLLOMAN, at which time she
identified herself as a CIA informant in Havana
(and stated that she was employed as a secretary to]
ALBERTO BAYO, JR.
The Bureau is advised that all informants
familiar with Latin American activities were contacted,
and no information was received indicating that the
subject was active in Cuban intelligence activities.

B.
COVER PAGE

NW 52333 DocId: 32303659 Page 3
SECRET

MM 97-300
C
SECRED
The interviews appearing in this report with
MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ, Dr. CARLOS SISO, and the subject,
appear on SF 64s and FD 302s in original form in
Miami case file 7-475, captioned: "UNSUBS; MARCOS PEREZ
JIMENEZ - VICTIM; KIDNAPPING CONSPIRACY (Bufile 7-9452).

IDENTITY INFORMANTS LOCATION OF ORIGINAL
INFORMATION
MM T-1 is CIA, Havana,
information contained
in Butel to Miami dated
October 9, 1959

MM T-2 18 ANA ROSA GUERRA
admitted) CIA informant in
Havana, who works in the
office of ALBERTO BAYO, JR.,
Director, Air Fumigation,
Havana](5)
MM T-3 is JANET SUMMERS,
District Manager's Clerk,
Southern Bell Telephone
and Telegraph Company,
Miami Beach, Florida
(nature of information)

7-475-9
Instant report, page 7.

Instant report, page 12.
Careful consideration has been given to each
source concealed in this report, and they were con-
cealed only in those instances where identities must
be concealed.

NW 52333 DocId: 32303659 Page 4
C*
COVER PAGE
SECRET

FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSCE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to: 1 - INS, New York (RM)
Report of: SA JOHN R. BARRON Miami
December 31, 1959
Date:

Field Office File #: 97-300 Bureau File : 7-9452 109-283
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION ANDOR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT. BRACKETS
EXCEPT FOR
pg. 7 Jm 6-25-97
Title: MARIA JOSEFA MENDIZABAL ARVIER SLD KSP
8-1-97
(JFK) ALL CONTAINER

Character: INTERNAL SECURITY CUBA
REGISTRATION ACT CUBA

LED
Ελνα διαNE SHOWN
OTHERWISE
Synopsis: Subject, MARIA JOSEFA MENDIZABAL ARVIER, born November 26,
1916 in Cuba: Immigration and Naturalization Service Alien
Registration No.A-11039008. While employed in Miami
Beach, Florida as secretary to MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ, ex-
Venezuelan president, reported by MM T-1 to be plant and
furnishing information to ALBERTO BAYO, JR. regarding the
activities of PEREZ JIMENEZ. MM T-1 described BAYO as
being active in intelligence matters for the Cuban govern-
ment. Subject interviewed wed and admitted association with
BAYOU)
DETAILS:
P
1/5/96
CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/GCL
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X (1)
Jhie)
This investigation is predicated on information
furnished by MM T-1, a United States government agency
which conducts intelligence investigations, which advised
on October 9, 1959 that the subject, "Nene" MENDIZABAL,
was in contact with ALBERTO BAYO, JR., described by
MM T-1 as being engaged in intelligence activity for the
Cuban government/ H
(u)
SUBJECT'S IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION STATUS
On October 9 and 30, 1959, the files of the
District Office, Immigration and Naturalization Service
(INS), New York City, were caused to be reviewed by SA
WILLIAM D. MEEHAN and reflected that on November 2, 1956,
one MARIA MENDIZABAL, A11-039-008, date of birth
November 26, 1916, in Havana, Cuba, filed an "Application
for Immigration Visa and Alien Registration" at the
This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to
your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.
DEGREN
ة
NW 52333 DocId: 32303659 Page 5

1
MM 97-300
SECRED
0
American Embassy, Havana, Cuba.

In this application MARIA MENDIZABAL furnished
her place of birth as Cleba del Agua, Havana, Cuba, and
claimed that she was known by no other names. Her
occupation was furnished as that of office clerk, and
her last permanent address as "Avenue 19 Number 8203,
e/84, Marianao, Havana, Cuba". Her destination and
address in the United States were furnished care of the
Latina Shipping Company, Limited, lll Wall Street,
New York City, but this was crossed through in ink,
and the address 321 East 43rd Street, New York 17,
New York, was marked in. She possessed Cuban Passport
Number 21566, issued September 20, 1955, by the Cuban
Ministry of State at Havana, Cuba, valid until September 20,
1957. She was described as follows:

Race White (Cuban)
Sex Female
Height 5 feet 5 inches
Weight 120 pounds
Hair Brown
Eyes Brown
Complexion Fair
Marital Status Divorced
Minor children Sons - PEDRO, FERNANDO
FERNANDEZ
ERNANDEZ VENDIZABAL;
NELSON JOSETERNANDEZ Y Cuba
MENDIZABAL (ages not APPROX
furnished) 1948
B. APPROX CubA
1942

She claimed further in this application that
she had previously applied for and was granted visas to
enter the United States' during 1952 and 1956, but the
dates of her previous sojourns to the United States
were not furnished.

MARIA MENDIZABAL submitted in support of
this application a copy of her Certificate of Birth,
Petition for Divorce, and a document attesting that
she had no arrest record in Cuba, all of which were

2-
NW 52333 DocId: 32303659 Page 6
SECRET

MM 97-300
0
in the Spanish language.
SECRE
Her file also contained an affidavit submitted
by one EDUARDO MX GONZALEZ, 45 Fifth Avenue, New York
N.V City, an American citizen, who was born in Havana, Cuba.
It was set out that GONZALEZ was the President and sole
owner of the Latina Shipping Company, 1ll Wall Street,
New York City, and was desirous of bringing MENDIZABAL
to the United States to work for the above company.
The degree of relationship existing between GONZALEZ
and MENDIZABAL was not set forth.

MARIA MENDIZABAL was granted an 0-1 Visa,
Number 5686, and arrived in the United States at Miami,
Florida, on February 20, 1957. This was the only arrival
or departure contained in the INS, New York records.

A search of the Alien Address Report Cards
maintained at INS, New York, failed to reflect any
record of MENDIZABAL for the years of 1958, and 1959.

RESULTS OF INVESTIGATION
MM T-1, on October 9, 1959, advised that
MARIA MENDIZABAL, also known as "Nene" MENDIZABAL,
employed as a secretary of ex-Venezuelan_president
MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ at Miami Beach, Florida,
attempted to contact ALBERTO REVUELTA in Havana, at
Havana telephone: 29-5233, on October 9, 1959. MM T-1
advised that ALBERTO REVUELTA is identical with ALBERTO
BAYO, JR, who, according to MM T-1, is engaged in
Intelligence activities for the Cuban government. MM T-1
believed that the subject was a plant and was furnish-
ing information to BAYO, JR. regarding the activities
of PEREZ JIMENEZ.
2.(4)

Prior to receipt of the above information
as furnished by MM T-1 on October 9, 1959, the following

3
NW 52333 DocId: 32303659 Page 7
SECRET
SPAIN
APPROX,
1924

MM 97-300
C
المكانية
MM T-2, on October 24, 1959] advised that
ALBERTO BAYO, JR., director of Air Fumigation, Marianao,
Havana, Cuba, revealed ſin early August, 1957 that "Nene"(5)
MENDIZABAL, subsequently identified as MARIA JOSEFA
MENDIZABAL ARVIER, was sent on a delicate mission to
Miami, and that in fifteen days, there would be an
announcement in the press about PEREZ JIMENEZ. MN T-2
advised that he observed the subject in the office of
ALBERTO BAYO, JR. on three occasions] (5)

The following information was obtained in
connection with investigation concerning another matter:

On October 29, 1959, MARIA JOSEFA MENDIZABAL
ARVIER was interviewed at Miami, Florida, by Special
Agents CHARLES W. EDMISTON and JOHN R. BARRON.

MARIA JOSEFA MENDIZABAL ARVIER, 1951 Park
Avenue, Apartment 11, Miami Beach, Florida, after being
advised of her right to be represented by counsel, that
anything she might say could be used against her in a
court of law, stated that she was born on November 26,
1916, at Havana, Cuba.

MENDIZABAL stated that she arrived in the
United States on August 15, 1959, aboard Cubana Airlines,
which departed Havana, Cuba, at approximately 5:30 p.m.
on August 15, 1959. She stated that upon her arrival
at the Miami International Airport, she was met by Dr.
CARLOS SISO and INES DAVILA, as well as a friend of Dr.
SISO, introduced to her as CARLOS PULIDO. ELA

MENDIZABAL advised that prior to her arrival
in Miami, she had received a letter from INES DAVILA
in the early part of August, 1959, wherein DAVILA
advised her that PEREZ JIMENEZ, ex-Venezuelan
President, was seeking the services of a reliable and
competent secretary. She stated DAVILA in her letter
to her asked if she would be interested in this position
to which she subsequently replied that she would accept
the position as secretary to PEREZ JIMENEZ, as she was
heavily in debt in Cuba.

NW 52333 DocId: 32303659 Page 8
7
SECRET
ピコ
