124-10332-10018
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 6/8/2015

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10332-10018
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-88025-9

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: MM
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 08/04/1961
PAGES: 10
SUBJECTS: SANTIAGO ALVAREZ RODRIGUEZ
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/21/1998
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE
COMMENTS:

v9.1
NW 50953 DocId:32313744 Page 1

MM 105-2234
CONFIDENTIAL

In view of the relative inactivity of subject
at this time insofar as Cuban revolutionary matters are
concerned, no further investigation is being conducted, and
this case is being closed. Should subject subsequently
emerge as an active leader in anti-CASTRO activities, his
case will be re-opened, and investigation conducted concerning
his activities, and the Bureau will be advised.

On August 1, 1961, WILLIAM HERRINGTON, CIA covert
representative, Miami, Florida, informed that CIA had an
operational interest in subject during the Cuban invasion
in April, 1961. HERRINGTON said that while there is no
interest in subject at the present time, CIA still has an
operational interest in subject's son, whom he identified
as SANTIAGO ALVAREZ.

HERRINGTON Indicated that CIA did have considerable
operational interest in subject's yacht, the "Alisan",
but that there is no interest at the present time.
HERRINGTON indicated he would advise the FBI at Miami if
CIA develops any further interest in subject.

Miami indices contained a 'communication from
JUSTIN F. GLEICHAUF, CIA representative, under date of
February 7, 1961, which, among other things, identified
subject as a former Cuban senator who had collaborated on
matters relating to the publication from time to time called
"Esbirros". (This information, according to CIA, came from
a usually reliable source. Communication was classified "secret"

An investigation by the Miami Office of "Esbirros"
disclosed it was a two or three-page mimeographed "scandal
sheet" directed against the Frente Revolucionario Democratico
(FRD), as well as all other groups and individuals both pro
and anti-FIDEL CASTRO, according to MM 492-S. It was noted
that many individuals, anti-CASTRO and anti-communist, had
accused many other individuals of printing "Esbirros", which
had resulted in the paper not being printed or published in
January, 1961. This paper received very limited distribution,
and it was not believed it had been printed in December, 1960.
NW 50953 DocId:32313744 Page 2
-B-
COVER PAGE
CONFIDENTIAL

MM 105-2234
CONFIDENTIAL

This report is classified confidential since
data reported from MM T-1, who is MM 726-S
reasonably result in the identification of a confidential
informant of continuing value and compromise the future
effectiveness thereof.

INFORMANTS

IDENTITY LOCATION OF ORIGINAL INFORMATION

MM T-1 is MM 726-S, 134-307-Sub A-98
contacted by SA Instant report, page 5
LEMAN L. STAFFORD, JR.

MM T-2 is MM 492-S,
contacted by Instant report, page 5
SA JAMES D. HAYES

MM T-3 is MM 724-S,
contacted by SA Instant report, page 6
JAMES D. HAYES

Careful consideration has been given to each
source concealed in this report, and "T" symbols have
been utilized only in those instances where identity must
be concealed,
NW 50953 DocId:32313744 Page 3
- C*-
COVER PAGE
CONFIDENTIAL
