2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10114-10010
RECORD SERIES: HO
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109090-356

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: LEG, PA
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 10/28/1964
PAGES: 9
SUBJECT: WC, ASSISTANCE, NEWS MEDIA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
ORIGINAL CLASSIFICATION: Secret
NEW CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW DATE: 09/24/1997
UPDATE DATE: 01/23/2001
STATUS: Redact

RESTRICTIONS:
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS: INC DIRECTOR, FBI RESPONSE, TRANSLATION FROM SPANISH AND CIA
LTR TO LEG, PA

---

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

TO: Director, FBI (62-109090)
FROM: Legat, Paris (62-148) (P.)
DATE: 10-28-64
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT,

SUBJECT: THE PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION ON
THE ASSASSINATION OF
PRESIDENT KENNEDY

Enclosed for the Bureau is one copy of a self-
explanatory Paris Embassy CAS (Controlled American Source
CIA) memorandum along with a copy of the letter in Spanish
mentioned in the memorandum.

The Paris Office has referred this matter to
the High General Staff (HGS), Madrid, Spain, with a request
for investigation by that service in an effort to locate
and identify the sender of the letter, and to interview him
for any data he may be able to supply. The results of this
Paris request of the HGS will be promptly reported when
available.

Bureau (Enc. 2)
(1 Liaison Section)
Paris

APPROVED ROUTING SLIP(S)
DATE: 11-2-64

Declassify on! QADR
(JFK Special)

---

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Norman Philcox
Legal Attache
FROM: CAS
DATE: 20 October 1964
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
SUBJECT: Crank Letter Concerning Warren Commission
Document

Our office in Madrid has sent us a copy of the attached
Spanish-language letter addressed to the American Ambassador
to Spain, and signed by one Antilin PERIS, alleging in the
first paragraph that the author has some information of interest
to impart. After opening the second paragraph by saying that he
had to flee Paris due to an indiscretion committed there, the
author states:

"There (apparently Paris), in the home of
some American friends, I got hold of an authen-
tic document about the assassination in Dallas,
which they say was swiped from the Warren
Commission and which is certainly prejudicial
for President Johnson. I have it on good
authority that they are currently trying to sell
it to no less than the Director of "Paris-Match."
Someone from the Embassy of the United Kingdom
in Paris is involved in the matter."...

The author closes by suggesting that an advertisement be inserted
in a Madrid newspaper if there be any interest in further details.

There are no traces from Madrid on Antilin PERIS, which
according to CAS, Madrid is almost certainly an alias. Needless
to say there is no return address on the letter or envelope, which
was mailed from Barcelona on 26 September 1964. CAS, Madrid has
forwarded us a copy of the letter on the off chance that we may
have received similar allegations; in such case Madrid would
appreciate learning the details so that they might inform the
Embassy. It was also suggested that we show you this letter.

CAS, Paris has no traces on Antilin PERIS

cc: United States Secret Service
Attn: Mr. John Hanly
