2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 6/5/2015

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10300-10012
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-147458-52

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, MM
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 07/14/1967
PAGES: 8
SUBJECTS: MR, LORIE, JORGE RAUL ROBLEJO, RES, POLIT ACT, TRA,
ASSOC, POLIT PRISONERS
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/14/1998
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: INC LHM

SECRET
FBI
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATIONDate: 7-14-67
Transmit the following AN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT FOR THE BRANIETS ON
Via
Type of plaintext or code)
AIRTEL 5668 BY S850/60 REGISTERED. MAIL SUD/US
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X4)(6
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IG UNCLELPLED

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (105-147458)
FROM: SAC, MIAMI (105-9977) (P)
SUBJECT: COMITE PRO-LIBERACION DE LOS CIEN
(CPLLC - COMMITTEE FOR THE LIBERATION
OF THE ONE HUNDRED)
IS - CUBA

Re Miami airtels 7-10-67, captioned "JORGE
RAUL ROBLEJO LORIE, IS - CUBA" and "SERGIO OSWALDO
BETANCOURT COLLAZO, aka - PSI, IS - CUBA"

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau are 14 copies
of a LHM dated and captioned as above. Extra copies
of this LHM are being furnished for transmittal to
Legats, Ottawa (2) and Mexico City (1).

It is to be noted limited dissemination has
been made concerning this matter and the enclosed LHM
due to the sensitivity of the information concerning the

5-Bureau (Enco14) (RM)
(1-Legat, Mexico City 105-4967)
(1-Legat Ottawa 105-3083)
1-New York (info) (105-77103) (Enc.) (RM)
1-San Juan (info) (105-9215) (Enc. 1) (RM)
1-Washington Field (info) (105-69372) (Enc. 1) (RM)
3-Miami
(1-105-9977)
1) (RM)
Copics made of SariAL 5.2.
(1-105-12062) (Rople769/78 YSG RE: M. Raj
1-134-1433-Sub-A) for review at FEIII b

SECRET

MM 105-9977
SECRET
possibility of ROBLEJO being involved in possible intelligence
activities.

The FBI does not actually utilize Building T90
or T94 to conduct interviews of Cuban refugees. However,
CIA under the guise of U. S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service interviewers interrogate these arrivals at this 
location. A supply of the FBI "aviso" and the Director's
message to newly arrived Cubans are distributed at this
location.

It is to be recalled previous investigation has
disclosed ROBLEJO has been in contact with REINALDO ABREU,
Attache at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City and connected
with Cuban Intelligence

Also on June 29, 1967, MM (1115-S reported LUIS
RICARDO ALONSO, former Cuban Ambassador to London, who
defected in 1965, has been in correspondence with CABREU
having been introduced to him by RAUL ROA, Cuban Minister
of Foreign Relations, in 1964. ABREU reportedly is in charge
of dealing with Cuban exile groups and Cuban guerrilla groups
and more specifically, has been in contact with ROBLEJO
since he, ABREU is handling the matter of Cuban political
prisoners. In addition, ABREU since he is unable to travel 
to Miami, has requested ALONSO to come to Mexico or to
converse with NICOLAS RODRIGUEZ AZTARAEN, attached to the
Cuban Mission to the United Nations in New York City in 
connection with this matter.

MM T-1 is SERGIO OSWALDO BETANCOURT COLLAZO..

The enclosed LHM is classified SECRET to protect
the identity of a potential informant of continuing value.

In the event the Bureau decides that the enclosed
LHM may be_disseminated, a copy of this LHM may be furnished
to the RCMPinasmuch as it does not contain any information

2.
SECRET
