124-90139-10071 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 4/17/201
Identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90139-10071
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 110-6-210-445

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SU
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 11/28/1961
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
ECONOMIC MATTERS CUBA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: MEMO

Memorandum
TO : DIRECTOR, FBI SECRET DATE: 11/28/61

SAC, SALT LAKE CITY (62-0) -C- Economic Matters
SUBJECT: LARGE QUANTITIES OF JUTE BAGS AND Cuba
HESSIAN CLOTH SOUGHT BY CUBAN
GOVERNMENT BY PURCHASE OR BARTER
THROUGH INTERNATIONAL ORE AND
FERTILIZER COMPANY, NEW YORK CITY

CIA HAS NECTION TO NEW YORK, AND OTHER UNKNOWN CONCERNS
PROLAB AND/OR NOVEMBER, 1961.
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATIISCELLANEOUS (DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION)
IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT BRACKETS

Enclosed herewith to the Bureau are the original
and three copies of a letterhead memorandum captioned as
above. Also enclosed are photostats of two teletypes
(total of four pages) purporting to be copies of teletypes
from International Ore and Fertilizer Company, New York City,
New York, to St. Regis Paper Company, Bag Division, Salt
Lake City, Utah.

The photostats and information set forth in the
letterhead memorandum were furnished to SA JOHN R. PHILIPS,
Jr., by a man identifying himself as HERBERT LEVY, Director
of Central Operations, St. Regis Paper Company, Bag Division,
2357 South Eighth West, Salt Lake City, Utah, telephone
Hunter 6-7171. Mr. LEVY said he resides at 2884 Hyland
Hills Road, Salt Lake City, Utah, residence telephone
Hunter 4-6424. Mr. LEVY stated he resided at Houston,
Texas, about five years ago, and at that time, he traveled
abroad, mostly in India for his company, St. Regis Paper
Company. While living in Houston, Texas, a representative
of Central Intelligence Agency, name and telephone number
not now recalled, contacted LEVY on several occasions and
requested him to obtain various types of information on his
trips to India, The type of information requested and
obtained by LEVY was mainly of an economic nature, or with
respect to some company or individual in India.

Bureau (Enc.
1 Salt Lake City

JRP:ps
