124-90037-10081 
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 5/26/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90037-10081
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-380792-26

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: BN
TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 01/29/1959
PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS: MARTIN GREENDLINGER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA, INDEFINITE
COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1
NW 50953 DocId: 32325799 Page 1

STANDARD FORM NO. 64
SECRET
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
DATE: 1/29/59
FROM: LEGAT, BONN (100-633)
SUBJECT: MARTIN GREENDLINGER, aka
SECURITY MATTER - C
Classified by SPCBJA/GCL
Declassify on: DADR8/28/85
CSPS MAC/GCL-4/15/94-JFK)

Reference New York letterhead memorandum 11/17/58, furnished by
Bureau routing slip 11/24/58.

The following agencies were furnished a summary of the New
York information on the subject and were requested to provide any information
which might come to their attention regarding the subject's travels or
activities:

G-2, Headquarters, U.S. Army Europe;
Office of Special Investigations, U.S. Air Forces, Europe;
Office of Coordinator and Special Advisor (confidential CIA),
American Embassy, Bonn, Germany; [ ] (5)
British Services Security Organization, British Forces in Germany;
Abteilung II (Security Police), Austrian Ministry of the Interior;
Bundesamt fuer Verfassungsschutz (BfV - West German Federal Office
for the Protection of the Constitution) and,
Security Office, American Embassy, Vienna, Austria. (5)

None of these agencies, except the British have furnished any
information to date. The British Services Security Organization advised under
date of 12/30/58, that it had no trace in its records on the subject, his
parents, Mr. and Mrs. DAVID GREENDLINGER, or his wife, ELENA IVANOVNA Greendlinger
RUC. LOC.
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION 100-380792-26
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
REDEINFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT BRACKETS
EX-102 KP 10-10-97
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN
OTHERWISE

NW 50953 DocId: 32325799 Page 2
SECRET
