2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 6/8/2015

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10284-10155
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-210-2088

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: LEG, PA
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE: 
DATE: 07/29/1960
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS: EPE, BAYO, ALBERTO, POLIT, REVOLUTIONARY ACT
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/03/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS:

THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
American Embassy
Paris 8, France

Date: July 29, 1960
To: Director, FBI
From: Legat, Paris (109-24)
Subject: CUBAN POLITICAL ACTIVITIES
Re Paris letter 7/21/60.

During a visit to Bern, Switzerland, the captioned
matter was discussed with BURTON LIFSCHULTZ, Chief of the
Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), Switzerland. He advised (s)
that the Cuban Ambassador, SALAZAR-SANCHEZ, had been dismissed
by the Cuban Government and his replacement has not yet
arrived. LIFSCHULTZ advised that it has been rumored that (s)
he will be replaced by one BAYO. He stated that this
individual has not as yet been definitely identified and
no background information is available regarding him. He
stated, however, that, he may be identical with the son
of "General" ALBERTO BAYO who has previously been reported
as a Spaniard who assisted in the CASTRO revolution and
who has reportedly been active in revolutionary activities
in Spain.

This is furnished for the information of the Bureau.
In the event further specific information is received, the
Bureau will be advised.
