2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10273-10104
RECORD SERIES: HO
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-116395-1640

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI
TO: SECRETARY OF STATE
TITLE:

DATE: 02/16/1967
PAGES: 102
SUBJECT: CIA, NATIONAL STUDENT ASSOC, PICKETING, DEMONSTRATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
ORIGINAL CLASSIFICATION: Secret
NEW CLASSIFICATION:
REVIEW DATE: 10/30/1998
UPDATE DATE: 02/14/2001
STATUS Redact

RESTRICTIONS:
Consultation
JFK Act 6 (1)(B)
JFK Act 6 (1)(C)
JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS: EBF, INC 2 ADMIN PAGE, 3 T/T, 34 MEMO, 5 LTR, 2 LHM, 6 NEWS ARTIC, 8 A/T

AIRTEL 2/18/67 AIRMAIL
TO: SAC, JACKSONVILLE
FROM: SAC, JACKSON (166-NEW) (P)

WENDELL R.MELQUIST;
ANTHONY LENNON:
ITAR - This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemination outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by
GAMBLING your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person-
(00: Jackson) nel without the express approval of the FBI.
INFORMANT
On 2/16/67, PCI LOUISE SKELTON, Biloxi, Miss. advised
on 2/7/67 above subjects registered into the Travel Inn Motel,
Biloxi. PCI stated that at time of registration above subjects
furnished the following information on their motel registration
card:
IRAN WENDELL R.MELQUIST
"WENDELL & MELQUEST MISS
260 Vernal Street B. APPROX
Eugene, Oregon 1937-1942
"1965 Ford, Florida License 8W20164
Employed, U. S. Government"
"ANTHONY LENNON MISS
43-24 165th Street
Flushing, N. Y.
B. APPROX
"Self-employed" 1937-1942
PCI described MELQUIST as a white male, age 25-30,
height, 5' 5", weight 150 to 160 pounds, dark hair, brown
eyes, medium complexion, and subject LENNON as a white male,
age 25-30, height 6', weight 175 pounds, light brown or sandy
hair, fair or light complexion with freckles.

2 - Jacksonville
2 - New York
1 G Portland
Jackson (166-NEW)
WDJ/bJk (3)
1- Bureau
SEARCHED
SERIALIZED,
INDEXED.
LED
62-80750-45 FEB 23 1967
4-12-67 la ENCLOSURE 166-94-1

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1952 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27
5010-107-02
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum SECRET

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
FROM FELEGAT, HONG KONG (0-2)
SUBJECT: RELATIONS WITH CIA (5)
DATE: 3/6/67

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT.
EXCEPT BRACKETS
JM 6-18-97

ReBulet 2/8/67.

Assistant Chief of Station, CIA, Hong Kong, has (5)
advised that the situation in Macau has returned to a degree
of normalcy in which covert inquiries can again be handled in
that colony with no more difficulty than before.

This is submitted for info of Bureau supervisors
handling Chinese investigative matters (5)
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT
WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.
9/29/98
CLASSIFIED BY 5668-506/6
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X
JFL
9/25/95
Classified by 5666-520/ SLe/6/8;
Declassify on: DADR (JFK)

(1- Bureau
(1- Foreign Liaison)
①- Hong Kong (4)
DA/jw
(4)
REC
62-80750-45-01

TO MAR 13 1967
EX-114
This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-
nation outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by
your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person-
nel without the express approvptiof the FBI.
6 MAR 21 1987
SECRET

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10.
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27
5010-106
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum SECRET

TO: Mr. Rosen
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR DATE: March 15, 1967
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
FROM R. I. Shroder EXCEPT FOR THE BRACKETS- Mr. Rosen
JM 6-25-97
SLOIKSR 8-2-97
1 Mr. Malley
1 Mr. Shroder
Mr. Thompson
SUBJECT: COMMUNIST PARTY OF VENEZUELA
and
INTERNAL SECURITY - VENEZUELA
KIDNAPING
CA
Tolson
DeLoach
Moht
Wick
Casper
Callahan
Conrad
Felt
Gale
Rosen
Sullivan
Tavel
Trotter
Tele. Room
Holmes
Gandy
(CIA) JFKA Mr. Sullivan
7 Mr. Trotter
C.T.A.3(4)

This relates to information received from CIA in-
dicating the possibility that the Communist Party of Venezuela
may attempt to kidnap the child of a CIA employee Thomas
Keogh No investigation is being conducted by us and appro- (5)
priate dissemination has previously been made.

At our suggestion, through liaison with CIA, finger-
prints and photographs have been obtained and were furnished
to SA W. O. Cregar by Mrs. Jane Roman of CIA on 3/10/67. This
material is being made part of this file for possible use in the
event of a kidnaping. Photographs and fingerprints are of the
following individuals: Joseph Edward Keogh; Thomas Patrick
Keogh, Jr.; Christina Margarita Keogh: Elizabeth Teresa/Keogh;
Francis Xavier Keogh; Thomas Patrick Keogh, III, and Maria Rita
Keogh (S)
ACTION:
D. A
IMASTIHOMAS PATEL KEOSH ARJ(5)
Agency Agency wire classifiend
Per Alth 11/26/91.0
9803-Rdd/g #211,326, 5/14/92
This matter has been coordinated with the identifi-
cation Division and it is recommended that this memo and
attachmentat be sent directly to SA Carl Volker, Room 4125, IB,
in order that the fingerprints may be promptly classified and
filed.
Enclosure ENCLOSURE ATTACHED, REC 33
WICFDT:emf
ST-114
Fingerprints of followers detached
and filetan Selink Rev
MARIA RITA KEOSH
EDWARD JOSEPH KEOGH
CHRISTINA MARGARITA KEGEH
706
IRANSTH TERESA REDCH :: (5)
341 FRANCIS XAVIER TEOG
PATRICK KENGH JR.
71 MAR 2919571K
62-80750-4563
YAR 20 1967

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN 16 UNCLASSTYTED EXCE
PAORD SHOWN THEO.
Massified by des 20/peck
Declassify on: OADR (SPK) SECRET

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG NO. 27
UNITED STATES GO
5010-106
RNMENT SECRET
Memorandum

TO: Mr. W. C. Sullivan ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
Sullivan MEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT
FROM D. J. Brennan, Jr.
WIERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.
SUBJECT: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA)
request and is not for dissemi-
nel without the express approval of the FBI
your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person-
nation outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by
This document is prepared in response to your

SOURCE
9/25/55
Chassined by 5665SED
Declassify on: ONDRSAK
Tolson
Loach
Mr
Choper
Cont
Gale
DATE: 3/15/67
Rosen
Sullivan
Tavel
Trotter
1- Mr. DeLoach
1- Mr. SulliQA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
1- Mr. BradASSIFICATION AND/OR,
1- LiaisonRELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
1- Mr. PariNCTHIS DOCUMENT.JM
16-18-97

In connection with developments in the case
134-9824, the [SD
captioned "NK 2264-S, (IS-R, Bureau file 134
Director noted "I note more and more we are telling CIA
about our domestic operations and always to our detriment.
I want this trend stopped. H." (A separate memorandum is
being submitted concerning a new development in the afore-
mentioned case).

On 3/15/67, the Liaison Agent met with Richard
Helms, Director, CIA, and took the opportunity to review
the status of relations between FBI and CIA. It was
felt that this was an opportune time to do so in view of
the Director's concern as expressed above.

Prissia
Helms stated that he personally was pleased with
relations between the two Agencies. He stated that sometimes
he is irked or disturbed when people outside and inside of
the Government ask the question "How are you getting along
with the FBI?" He indicated that this question is frequently
asked by members of Congress. Helms stated that he
religiously has followed a practice of lucidly and firmly
advising such people that relations are excellent. He
stated that he personally believed that this was true.

The Liaison Agent commented that working relations
are good, but there was an area which might not be getting
proper attention. The Agent stated that there was reason
to be concerned regarding effective coordination on those
cases which are of interest to both FBI and CIA because there
appeared to be developing an atmosphere where people in both
Agencies felt that there was now wide-open liberty to conduct
operations and activities of a joint nature. The Agent
stated that he wished to emphasize that such an atmosphere
cannot exist and that Mr. Hoover would never condone any
trend in this direction. The Agent commented that work in
this area had to be very efficiently coordinated and that we
in the Bureau were closely scrutinizing) each situation as it
develops where both Agencies had an interest. The Agent
suggested that Mr. Helms might desire to alert appropriate
subordinates in the Agency on this point.
SJPrab
(6) dar
159 MAR 24 967
REC 51
SECRET
CONTINUED OVER
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X (1) (JFK)
CLASSIFIED BY 5668-50/mid
9/29/98
62-80758-4564
MAR 20,1957

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)
FBI
Date: 3/17/67

Transmit the following in (Type in plaintext or code)
AIRTEL Via (Priority)

621 TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (05-80750)
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUM.
JM 6-18-97
SLDIASP
6-30-97
FROM: SAC, WTO (66-3896)
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
OPERATIONS IN THE UNITED STATES
Source
D
C
On 3/15/67, PSI EMIL R. SVEILIS, the late night
desk editor, United Press International, Washington, D. C.
who has furnished reliable information in the past, said
that he wished to advise this office that he overheard
comments indicating that CIA had contributed at least one
million dollars to the National Council of Churches. He
also advised that he understood that the CIA maintains a
"safe house at the Airle House, Warrenton, Virginia." He
was questioned specifically about the source of the above
information and indicated that he believed that he heard
this information from individuals connected with the news
media but he could not recall the exact identity of these
individuals. He indicated that he got the impression
that this information was common knowledge in the news
field.
your Committe
not without the express approval of the FBI
fee and the content may not be dis
nation outside your Committee. I's use is limited to official proceedings by
This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-
diselneed to wennuinorized person-
२
The Bureau may wish to advise CIA by appropriate
channels concerning the information that the CIA had
allegedly contributed money to the National Council of
Churches and maintains a "safe house" at Warrenton,
Virginia. This information was not put in LHM form
because of its general character and because the PSI
was unable to recall his source of this information
or when the information came to his attention.

Bureau
The PSI requested that his identity be protected.
2 WTO (1-134-7249 Sub A)
PAT:mfd
(5)
LA ARTEL
Approved:
IL WICH
A
FLO
REC-35 62 807504565"
(SVEILIS) Somet
LIARDO
3/1/
CIA a
M
Per
Sent
Special Agent in Charge
INT SEC

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY, 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27
5010-106
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum
CONFIDENTIAL

TO MR. J. P. MOHR
DATE: 3/24/67

FROM MR. I. W. CONRAD

SUBJECT
REQUEST FOR TOUR OF LABORATORY
BY TECHNICAL PERSONNEL OF
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA)
Tolson
DeLoach
Casper
Callahan
loveconrad
Felt
Gale
Rosen
Sullivan
vel
Trotter
Tele. Room
Holmes
Gandy
AN
Mr. Lon Thomas, Document Examiner for CIA, called this afternoon
to inquire if a tour could be arranged through the FBI Laboratory for himself
and two of his co-workers, Mr. Joseph Hall and Stanley Schultz. They have
no specific problems, but merely wish to visit our facilities briefly.
Accordingly, tentative arrangements have been made for the requested tour at
1p.m., March 29, 1967. 8-2-97

ACTION:
CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLUS
DECLASSIFY ON: 25XL

Unless advised to the contrary, the tour will be conducted as requested.
Cia Itr
9803-Rad/9/2011, 322 5/14/92.
1-Mr. Wick (Att: Tour Room)
1-Mr. W. C. Sullivan (Att: Mr. S. Papich)
1-Mr. Conrad
(4) IWC:dmg

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN 16 INCLASS PIED EXCE
WILLE SHOWN OTHERSIS
Handled 3/25/17
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT.,
GK. EXCEPT FOR THE BRACKETS
JM 6-25-97
(SLD ILSR
-9/25/15/15405-545
Classified
Deiessity A CAR (GPL)
$62-20750-4567

18 MAR 311967
SEVEN
CONFIDENTIAL

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-
nation outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by
your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person-
59 APR 10196 pithout the express approval of the FBI.

CONFIDENTIAL
OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10.
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
Memorandum

TO Mr. D. J. Brennan,
FROM W. O. Cregar

Tolson
DeLoach
Mohr
Wick
Casper
Callahan
Conrad
Felt
Gale
DATE: 4/4/67
Rosen
Sullivan
Tavel
Trotter
SUBJECT CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA)
ALIEN INTERVIEW REQUESTS
(CIA)
Tele. Room
Holmes
Gandy
Seat
Re memorandum Cotter to Sullivan dated 3/28/67
which instructed the Liaison Agent to advise appropriate
CIA representatives of the change in handling alien inter-
view requests at the Bureau.

On 3/31/67, the Liaison Agent advised Mr. Leo
Dunn of the change in handling alien interview requests
at FBI Headquarters. (Dunn was advised that the overall
coordination for handling these requests would be handled
by the Bureau's Name Check Section under the coordination
of Special Agent J. W. Brown.

Inasmuch as CIA occasionally makes a telephonic
request when expedite matters are involved, the Liaison
Agent obtained the names of Eugene Young and Becky Vaughn
as the persons who would call Special Agent Brown in the
event an expedite matter is involved. CIA is well aware
that the use of this telephonic request should be held to
a minimum and used only at times when time is of the
essence and the matter is of sufficient importance to
deviate from the normal request procedures.
ACTION:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT
WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.
(C)
Classification Rer
CIAlt A 11/26/91.
9603-Rodd/ #211,326
5/14/92

The above is directed to the Name Check Section
for their information and attention.
1 - Mr. Scatterday (J.W. Brown)
1 - Mr. Cotter
1 Liaison
1 Mr. Papich
9/25/45
Classified by 5668520/de
Declassify on: GADR
103
(JL)
4722-80150 4571
3 APR 7 1967
1 Mr. Cregar

WOC:rab
(6) nab
This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-
nation outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings bu
your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person-
nel without the express approval of the FBI

56APR 171967
CONFIDENTIA
NAMECK
