124-90135-10074 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 6/2/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90135-10074
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82298-164

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 01/18/1963
PAGES: 28

SUBJECTS: ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/19/1999
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: SUMMARY

v9.1
NW 50953 DocId:32336679 Page 1

SECRET

CORRELATION SUMMARY

Main File No: 105-82298 Date: January 18, 1963
Subject: Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo Date Searched: 10/26/62
Kiko Pernas** ALT: INFORMATION CONTAINED
One Gutierrez** 1. CLASSIFIED
One Martinez*** EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN
OTHERWISE
All logical variations of subject's name and aliases were searched and
identical references found as:
SUMMEPY
Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo
Eloy Guiterrez Eloy Gutierrez Menoya
One Menbyo
Eloy Goitierrez Eloy Menoyo
Eloy Gut errez Elog Gutierrez Menoyo
JEloy Gutierez Eloy Guitierrez Menoyon
Eloy Gutierres Eloy Guterrez menoyo
Ely Gutierres Eloy Gutierez Meneyo
Elog Gutierrez JEloy Gutierres Menoy o
EloyCGutierrez Eloy Gutirrez Menoyo
Eloy Gutterrez Menoyo
Loy Manoyo Gutierrez Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo
Eloye Gutierrez X Ely Gutierres Menoyo
23 Ely Gutierrez Gallego Gutierrez Menoyo
Eloy Gutierrez Manoyor Guterriez Menoyo
Gutierre Mebeyo
Lazaro Martinez Gutierrez Menoyo
Lazaro 0. Martinez Eloy Guiterrez Menoyo
Lazaro Cristobal Florian Martinez Eloy Monoya
Lazaro Cristobal Florian Martinez Mendez Eloy Gutierrez Monoya
Lazaro Martinez Mendez Floy Gutierrez Monoya
Lazaro 0. Martinez Mendez Eloy Gutierrez Monoyo
Ely Gutierrez Henjoya ar
Jeloy Gutierrez Menoy
Gutierrez Menoya Monous 05 RABISA
7/25/94
Classified by Ap & blyfgel
Also searched as one Gallego, see page 29 of summary. Declassify: 2/13/8
(continued on next page) (JFA

THIS SUMMARY HAS BEEN FREPARED FOR USE AT THE SEAT OF
GOVERNMENT AND IS NOT SUITABLE FOR DISSEMINATION
Analyst Coordinator RECAL105-82298-164 Approved
James F. Klin C. BEHIND FILE Mary H. Elgin wher Norman F. Stultz
JFK: jeb

*Gutierrez was alleged to have used the nickname Kiko Pernas. Seac
serials 72 and 95 of main file (105-82298). See also 105-98002-1

** Not searched, see page 56 of search slip.

***Not completely searched, see page 56 of search slip.
62 JAN 29 1963,72 Fow

NW 50953 DocId:32336679 Page 2

MM 105-5948 SECRET

organization rather than through file on GUTIERREZ MENOYO as
an individual. Accordingly, Miami file 105-2102 (Bufile
105-82298) is being closed at this time and all leads regarding
the II Front or GUTIERREZ MENOYO will be handled in 105-5948.
For this reason a report was prepared at this time instead of
the letterhead memorandum as requested in referenced Bureau
letter.

Identity - INFORMANTS - Location
MM T-1 is MM 639-S 134-238 Sub A-479 and
134-238 Sub A-478..

- C* -
COVER PAGE SECRET

NW 50953 DocId: 32336679 Page 3

: SECRET
Hector Peter Ordetx, 1802 Lamar St., Tampa, Fla., furnished
on 1/26/62, a quantity of miscellaneous papers, some of which bore the
name of Roberto De Los Rios (100-431672) and appeared to be
correspondence between him and members of his family in Cuba. One of
these papers was a carbon copy of a typewritten letter in Spanish to
"Dear Father", dated 4/7/59, at Tampa, with no signature. The writer
said that Nelson had written him asking for declarations of the
committee in regard to Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo and his insidious
declarations. No further information.

100-431-672-27 p.16,17
(3,361)

Correlator's Note: It was noted that Roberto De Los Rios had a brother
named Nelson.

Rolando Arcadio Masferrer Rojas (100-344127) advised on
4/29/59, that he had heard that Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo and William Morgan,
former leaders in Sierra del Escambray, Second Front, were dissatisfied
with the situation in Cuba..

100-344127-18 p.19
(3)

CIA Information Report, dated 5/19/59, revealed that
Temistocles Fuentes Rivera (105-62455) stated that when Ernesto "Che"
Guevara arrived in Las Villas Province, Cuba, during the revolution,
he was in the zone of the Segundo Frente Nacional del Escambray which
was headed by Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, Gutierrez and an armed troop met
Guevara with drawn guns, accused him of being a communist and demanded
that he and his men leave their area of operations.

105-62455-10 p.1
(336)

MM-635-S, employed by the Cuban Air Force, advised that
on 5/20/59, Major Éloy Gutierrez Menoyo, Major Pernas, and Major
Armando Fleitas, all leaders of the Second Front of the Escambray,
came to consult with Major Marcos Diaz Lanz, chief of the Revolutionary
Air Force in Cuba. Gutierrez told Marcos Diaz that they had 400 men
who were unemployed and whom they would like to put to work in order to
keep them out of trouble.

109-599-6 Encl.p.17
(1347)

SECRET
-5-

NW 50953 DocId: 32336679 Page 4

SECRET
On 3/18/59, Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, at a press conference, stated
that his, organization* supported the Castro Government "as long as it
lives up to the principles for which we fought", and that if it should
deviate "we will take whatever steps circumstances dictate". He further
stated that his group was 100% anti-communist.

On 4/20/59, Gutierrez left Havana to visit Miami at the
invitation of Miami's Mayor, (source not clear).

Paul Bethel, Press Officer, U.S. Embassy, Havana, Cuba
(protect identity), advised that Tony Beacon was appointed Gutierrez's
press secretary on the above mentioned trip and Beacon was paid by Nick
Bartone, an American who was attempting to sell C-74's (Globemaster I)
to Cuba.

"The Havana Post ", dated 5/27/59, carried an article to the
effect that the Second National Front of the Escambray (105-78831) had
issued a statement which endorsed the Agrarian Reform Program Program of the
Cuban Government. The statement was signed by Gutierrez, National
Chief, and Armando Fleitas, Secretary General of the organization.

Add. info. according to PSI Hugo Gonzalez Lajonchere
(protect identity)(u)

105-78831-1 p.1,2
(538)

A Foreign Service Dispatch from the Department of State,
dated 5/28/59, revealed that Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo had told the Embassy
in Cuba that the Segundo Frente Nacional del Escambray (105-78831) was
strongly anti-communist and would take action if necessary should the
Government come under communist control or domination..

State also advised that a source, who had spent a month with
the Segundo Frente under the command of Gutierrez, advised that the group
was non-political and definitely not communist. Gutierrez felt that
Fidel Castro had a number of communists among his advisors and he believed
one of these was "Che" Guevara. Guevara had been joined by some of the
members of the Segundo Frente, with Gutierrez's approval, but Guevara's
followers had not been allowed to take arms with the Segundo Frente

* Second National Front of the Escambray.
105-78831-3 p.2,3,4 TP's 6+ 7
(538) is NOW DECLASS
PER DEPT. OF
STATE LET. DTD
3-19-98
SLD/ICSR
5113-98
(JFIL)

-6- SECRET

NW 50953 DocId: 32336679 Page 5

SECRET
Francisco Rodriguez Couceiro, 6424 S.W. 38th St., Miami, Fla.,
advised that the Crusade of Revolutionaries Against Communism (CRAC) had
planned an invasion of the Isle of Pines, Cuba. In June, 1959, Eloy
Gutierrez Menoyo and William Alexander Morgan, Commanders in the Cuban
Army, were in contact with the Movimento Revolucionario Democrata in
Havana, and this was known to the CRAC in Miami. Rodriguez had advised
the group in Cuba and the anti-Castro movement in the Dominican Republic,
not to trust either Morgan or Gutierrez because he considered them both
to be loyal to Castro, and their cooperation with the group was for the
purpose of entrapment.
!
Add. info. according to Rodriguez.
ル
105-81502-7 p.20
(6,389)

A teletype from San Juan, dated 6/5/59, concerning
Nicaraguan revolutionary activities, set out the following: "Second
Front Escambray Forces under Commandant Ely Gutierrez Menjoya
requested immediate dissolution from Government. Message conjectures
that this may mean a breakaway from policies of July 26 and could mean
participation in other revolutions." Not further clarified.
109-12-222-503,
(26)

MM 685-S% advised on 6/26/59, that Paul Hughes, an
American pilot, flew for Commander Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo during the
Cuban Revolution. Hughes was suspected of taking guns that were
stored at Miami International Airport and which belonged to the
Cuban Government. Hughes had come to Miami from Cuba on a mission
for Gutierrez.
!
On 7/2/59, Sergio Diaz Brull, former advisor to the former
Chief of the Cuban Air Force, advised that Gutierrez was sympathetic
with the anti-Fidel Castro Movement and was waiting in the mountains
of Cuba with approximately 2,000 men for instructions when to attack
the forces of the Cuban Revolutionary Government.

NW 50953 DocId: 32336679 Page 6
105-79528-2 p.B, Encl.p.7
(5,38
SECRET
-7-

SECRET
Department of the Army advised that in an interview with
Florencio Pernas Lorenzo (105-98002) on 2/14/61, Pernas advised that
from January to March, 1959, all he did was attend social and official
gatherings in Cuba. During this period he made a trip to Miami, Fla.
with Comandante Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo. In about July, 1959, he was
requested by Gutierrez to participate in an action against Trujillo
and Batista followers who were to attack Cuba. From 12/20-23/59, Pernas
made a trip to Tampa, Fla., accompanied by Gutierrez to collect toys for
needy children of the Escambray.
(u) P's 1+2 IS DECLASS PER ARM
1E7. DTD. 4-16-98 SLD/KSR 513/98
Pernas entered the U.S. with Gutierrez and planned to go to OFK)
Miami and wait for orders of Gutierrez as to his future actions.
)(u)
Add. info. according to Fernando Prio Hernandez, 1330
Southwest 12th Ave., Miami, Francisco Prio Socarras, 2200 Southwest
2nd Ave., Miami, Antonio Prio Socarras, 1001 Southwest 22nd St., Coral
Gables, Fla., and duplicate informant.

105-98002-11 p.4-6,8-10
(8,41)
SI 105-98002-2 p.2,3
(841)
SI 105-98002-9 p.3,4,6-8
(841) Add. info.

*Entered U.S. January, 1961

CIA advised that a meeting composed of anti-Franco elements
and communists took place on 2/4/61, at the camp of the Spanish
Liberation Army (Ejercito de Liberacion de Espana-ELE) on the Isle of
Pines near Havana. Abderraman Muley More and his aide, Manuel Perez,
leaders of DRIL (Iberian Revolutionary Directorate of Liberation): who
had taken charge of ELE since the departure in late January, 1961, of
Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, were threatened with expulsion from Cuba for
resisting communist efforts to take over ELE.

109-587-47
(1347)

Miguel Antonio Sanchez Ramos, who was interviewed in Room 615,
Roger Williams Hotel, 28 East 31st St., NYC (not further identified)
(Protect identity), and who had furnished reliable information in the past,
advised on 1/27/61, that Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, who was involved in
the "double cross" of the Dominican Repüblic's attempt to overthrow
Fidel Castro in August, 1959, had a price of $100,000 on his head, put
there by Trujillo of the Dominican Republic.

105-93789-39 Encl.p.7
(740)

NW 50953 DocId: 32336679 Page 7
-13-
d
SECRET

SECRET
On 2/23/61, Cirita Lopez Cejas, residence, Miami, Fla., and a
messenger for Manuel Ray and the underground, advised that Manuel Ray
had helped Gutierrez Menoyo and the group who came with him, to escape
from Cuba on 1/27/61. Lopez stated that she assisted in the arrange-
ments for the defection and had hidden 5 or 6 of the revolutionaries in
her home in Havana. She advised that Ray recognized that Gutierrez
pulled a considerable amount of support and following as a former leader
of the Escambray. He was considered a good campaigner and knew the
Sierra Escambray Mountains extremely well.
$
113-7-210-252 Encl.p.7,8
(51)

The 2/1/61, issue of the "Miami Herald" carried an article
entitled "Economic Crises Won't Topple Castro-Prio" in which Carlos
Prio Socarras (109-430) stated his views on Cuba and Castro. Prio also
expressed concern that Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, the rebel commandante who
had sought asylum in Miami, was still being detained by U.S. authorities:
Guiterrez was an anti-communist, according to Prio.

109-430-2390 Encl.p.3
(23)
SI 109-430-2395 p.10
(23)

CIA Information Report, dated 2/10/61, revealed that a source
who belonged to a group which assisted defectors to escape from Cuba,
had been trying to get Humberto Sori Marin (105-93839) out of Cuba.
The source visited Miami to determine whether the means of escape from
Cuba had been compromised by Gutierrez Menoyo and his companions. He
also wanted to determine if Sori would be interned as was Gutierrez,
and how Gutierrez had learned about this escape route and how he was
able to highjack the boats.

105-93839-20
(29)

CIA furnished on 3/6/61, a memorandum captioned "DRIL Plans
For Action In the Iberian Peninsula" which stated that the Iberian
Revolutionary Directorate of Liberation (DRIL) planned to infiltrate a
group from Portugal into the Sierra Morena mountain range. According to
the secretary of DRIL leader Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, DRIL had a
clandestine printing shop in Madrid. Field Comment: According to a
2/14/61 report from an official Spanish service, Gutierrez's secretary(c)
in Havana, said that DRIL leader Abderraman Muley More had commented
that his plan had been to charter a boat to be used for clandestine
landing in Spain or Portugal.

NW 50953 DocId: 32336679 Page 8
109-587-48 p.3
(1347)
-14- SECRET

SECRET
On 6/30/61, Ralph Huguet, former officer in the Cuban Rebel
Air Force, advised that Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo and Max Edgardo Lesnick
Menendez (105-64869) resided with him at the Blue Bay Motel, Normandy
Isle, Miami Beach, Fla. Gutierrez desired to come to the Miami Office
for an interview. Huguet advised that to his knowledge, neither
Lesnick nor Gutierrez were involved in any acitvity or in any way
connected with the current Cuban government.

105-64869-11
(436)

SI 105-64869-12 p.1-3
(436) Add. info.

MM 639-S advised that Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, a recently
defected military commander of the Cuban Revolutionary Army, and
closely associated with the Frente Revolucionario Democratico, a
leading anti-Castro organization, planned to attend, as an observer,
military demonstrations with maneuvers that were to be held at an
abandoned airport at Davie, Fla., on 7/1/61. These demonstrations were
held by the Revolutionary Junta of National Liberation (2-1683).

2-1683-3 Encl.p.2
(1,34

MM 639-S advised on 7/2/61, that Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, did
not attend the demonstration held on 7/2/61, at Davie Airport, Davie, Fla.,
by the Revolutionary Junta of National Liberation (2-1683).

2-1683-7 Encl.p.2
(134)
SI 2-1693-31 p.11
(2,35) (Add. info according to
Gerald Patrick Hemming, 1936 Southwest
3rd St., Miami, Fla.)
SI 2-1499-78 p.11
(1,340)

NW 50953 DocId: 32336679 Page 9
-17-SECRET

SECRET
Miami report, dated 10/4/61, revealed that MM-639-S advis ed
that Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo's father and brother were both known
communists in Cuba and Eloy himself fought on the side of the communists
in Spain in the 1930's. Eloy was further accused of being responsible for
over 200 innocent people being put in jail in Cuba and having participated
in the William Alexander Morgan affair at Trinidad, Cul Cuba, in August, 1959.
He was not well considered by Cuban nationals in Miami, had a bad
reputation and was not generally trusted.

Add. info.
2-1693439 p.1,3-7,11
(235)

Roger Redondo Gonzalez, 730 W. 11th Ave., Miami, Fla., advised
on 11/13/61, that a captain Antonico (LNU), who furnished the transportation
for a group of Cuban exiles to infiltrate Cuba in August, 1961, was in
charge of contacting the Cuban underground for Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo. C

Rafael Huguet Del Valle, Blue Bay Motel, 2070 Bay Drive, Miami
Beach, Fla., advised on 11/13/61, that Antonico (LNU) was a fishing boat
captain from Cayo Guillermo, Cuba, who was a member of the revolutionary
movement of Gutierrez and who had contact with the underground section of
this movement in Cuba.
Add. info. according to Huguet and duplicate informants.

2-1693-50 p.1-4,6
(235)

CNY 2965-S advised that on 12/22/61, Herbert Matthews ("NY Times"
correspondent) contacted Mario Garcia Inchaustegui (105-99238), Cuban
Ambassador to the UN. Garcia asked Matthews if there was any news of the
"invasion of my country". Matthews replied that there was nothing new,
only "the ravings of that "jerk' Gutierrez (probably Eloy Gutierrez
Menoyo) and Miro Cardona" (anti-Castro Cuban revolutionary leaders).

NW 50953 DocId: 32336679 Page 10
105-99238-26 p.15)
(841)
-19-SECRET

SECRET
Gerardo Gabriel Antonio Hernandez Perez (105-113456), residence,
Miami, Fla., advised on 8/3/62, that he and many other Cubans had a poor
opinion of Jose Miro Cardona, President of the Cuban Revolutionary
Council, Manuel Ray Rivero, former member of the council, and Eloy Gutierrez
Menoyo, because they were once with the Castro regime and probably would
have stayed if there had been sufficient opportunity for them to advance
politically and financially. Ray was considered the most anti-American
of any of the exiled leaders.

105-118456-1 Encl.p.7
(9/42

On 9/12/62, Rene Dechard, 1174 S.W. 12th St., Miami, Fla.,
advised that Max Garcia (97-4345) had made phone calls to his home at
various times in the past in attempts to locate Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo,
97-4345-35 р.1,2
(336)

CIA Information Report, dated 9/18/62, revealed that General
Generoso Campos Marquetti, President of the Alliance For the Liberty of
Cuba (105-114160), stated that the Alliance sought a unification of all
elements, except those of the Castroite bloc whose "hands are stained
with blood". Campos was adamant in refusing to accept anyone of the ilk
of Gutierrez Menoyo (FNU).
4)
Headquarters Comment: This probably refers to Eloy Gutierrez
Menoyo, Commandant of the former anti-Batista Second National Front of the
Escambray, who took exile in the U.S. in January, 1961.

105-114160-2 p.3,4
(9420)

MM 639-S advised that on 9/28/62, Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo,
Tony Cuesta and about 4 others attended a meeting in Miami, Fla., which
was considered a meeting of Operation Alpha 66 (105-112098). Cuesta
had lived at 2753 N.W. 13th St., Miami, and had been in contact with
Gutierrez and a number of American soldiers of fortune and mercenaries.
Gutierrez was last known to reside at 1126 S.W. 12th Ave., Miami, and
it was not known if he was a member of Operation Alpha 66.
4)
NW 50953 DocId: 32336679 Page 11
105-112098-40 Encl.p.5
5/11200
(942)
-23- SECRET

SECRET
REFERENCES NOT INCLUDED IN THIS SUMMARY

The following references on One Gallego, located in files
maintained in the Special File Room of the Files and Communications
Division, Records Branch, were not reviewed: (5)

REFERENCE SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER
64-330-237-1545 (62)
64-330-239-825 (S) (62)

The following reference on One Gallego was not available
during the time this summary was being prepared:s)

REFERENCE. SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER
64-1200-1063 64 (62

See the search slip filed behind file for other references
on this subject which contain the same information (SI) that is set out
in the main file. Differences in source and additional nonpertinent
information will be noted on the search slip.

NW 50953 DocId:32336679 Page 12
SECRETI
-27-
