2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 5/11/201

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10221-10229
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-72630-3

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, SJ
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/27/1958
PAGES: 9

SUBJECTS: PDL, ASSOC, PILOT, CASTRO, FIDEL, TRA, FLIGHT PLAN,
DESTINATION, RCK
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: INC 6 S/S, MEMO

FBI

Date: 8/27/58
Transmit the following in AIRTEL
(Type in plain text or code)
Via CIA HAS NOAERUMATON TO
DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR,
IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT FOR THE BRACKETS
TO: MKH 3-6-98
DIRECTOR, FBI
FROM: SAN JUAN (105-new)
SUBJECT: PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ;
RENALDO BLANCO HERNANDEZ;
ALBERTO EUSEBIO MOJENA
IS CUBA

CLASSED BY: MaciuNA
DECLASSIKY ON: ZONOR

By communication marked "Secret" dated
8/26/58, DAVID R. MCLEAN, H & R Section, Fort Brooke
advised that they received the following in-
formation from a usually reliable source. Information
is prefaced with the following statement: "In view of
the sensitive means through which we acquired it, it
is requested that the FBI take no action which might
compromise our source."

Communication states that PEDRO LUIS DIAZ
LANZ, also known as PEDRO LUIS DIAZ, a Cuban born
November 8, 1926 at Havana, is a pilot, courier, and
possible agent for FIDEL CASTRO. DIAZ is reportedly
associated with REINALDO BLANCO HERNANDEZ and ALBERTO
EUSEBIO MOJENA who are Cubans and not further identified.
Jamaican police believe that these three individuals
operate from Ft. Lauderdale, Florida.

DIAZ passed through Palisades Airport,
Kingston, Jamaica, on May 5, 1958. On July 17, 1958,
DIAZ arrived at the Palisades Airport, piloting a Cessna
aircraft, AM5213D with BLANCO as a passenger.

3)- Bureau (RM)
2 Miami (RM)
4 - San Juan
(1-97-92)
(1 109-26):
JAD:aej
(9)

Approved ente
Special Agent in Charge
