2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 4/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90137-10284
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-78890-27

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: PAPICH
TO: BRENNAN
TITLE:
DATE: 07/05/1963
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
LEVI LAUB
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998
OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: MEMO

***

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
UNITED STATES GOVERNENT

Memorandum

SECRET

TO : D. J. BRENNAN DATE: July 5, 1963

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UICLASSIFYED EXCEPT
WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

FROM : S. J. PAPICH

SUBJECT: LEVI LAUB
UNAUTHORIZED TRAVEL TO CUBA

Reference is made to Central Intelligence Agency (CIA)
letter dated April 18, 1963, captioned "U. S. Nationals in Cuba."
The Liaison Agent was instructed to obtain more specific information
concerning subject's reported travel to Cuba. The following was
furnished to the Liaison Agent on July 3, 1963, by A. P. Flynn, CIA:

Information received by CIA indicated that the subject was
in Cuba during the period February 22-March 11, 1963. CIA received
this information from the British Intelligence Service (MI-6). The
British obtained the data from Gavin Young, a British newspaperman(s)
who was in Cuba during the same period described above. MI-6 has
advised CIA that Young is currently traveling to San Francisco. The(s)
British MI-6 representative in Washington, D. C. plans to contact
Young and work out arrangements whereby Young can be made available
to the Bureau for interview.

ACTION:

The above information is being directed to the attention of
the Subversive Control Section.

105-78890 CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
1 - Mr. Bland DECLASSIFICATION. AND/OR,
1 - Mr. Haack RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
1 - Liaison IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT FOR THE BRACIEK
1 - Mr. Papich
SJP:gp (5)

REC-69 105-78890- FLOW
EX-108

4-1-98
CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/KSR
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X1,6
(JFK)

SECRET
