2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10279-10018
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-221-1790

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 08/30/1967
PAGES: 2.
SUBJECTS: EGD, ASSOC, ARRESTED, ROLE, ACAPULCO MURDERS
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Confidential
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/30/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS:

---

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
Inte gence Information Cble
ROUTINE
IN-41475
PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES

STATE/INR DIA NMCC/MC (SECDEF) ARMY NAVY AIR CIA/NMCC NIC NSA OCR SDO AID
FBI USIA ONE ORR DCS

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C.
Secs. 793 and 794, the transmisson or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT. NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE.
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L CITE TDCS-314/13013-67
300659Z DIST 30 AUGUST 1967

COUNTRY: MEXICO
DOI: 28 AUGUST 1967.
ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
56685LD/K (JFK)

SUBJECT: ARREST OF FEDERAL DEPUTY CESAR DEL ANGEL FUENTES
FOR AGITATIONAL ACTIVITIES IN GUERRERO

ACQ: MEXICO, MEXICO CITY (29 AUGUST 1967) FIELD REPORT
NO. HMM-11,295
SOURCE: MEXICAN SECURITY OFFICER WITH ACCESS TO INFORMATION

DERIVED FROM INVESTIGATIVE ACTIVITIES. THIS REPORTING
HAS BEEN RELIABLE SINCE EARLY 1966.

1. FIELD COMMENT: THE ROLE OF FEDERAL DEPUTY FROM THE
STATE OF VERACRUZ, CESAR DEL ANGEL FUENTES, IN THE CLASH BE-
TWEEN RIVAL FACTIONS OF THE COPRA GROWERS' UNION IN ACAPULCO,
GUERRERO, OVER THE WEEKEND OF 19-20 AUGUST 1967, RESULTING
IN THE DEATH OF ABOUT THIRTY PERSONS AND THE WOUNDING OF ABOUT
ONE HUNDRED, HAS BEEN WIDELY PUBLICIZED IN THE MEXICAN PRESS.
THERE HAS BEEN SPECULATION THAT HE WOULD BE ARRESTED, BUT FOR
HIS CONGRESSIONAL IMMUNITY. HIS IMMUNITY, HOWEVER, EXPIRES

54 SEP12 1967 C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NO FOREIGN DISSEM
279-10018
109-12-221

---

279-10018
Auc 31 11 45 AM 67
IN-41475
TDCS -314/13013-67

LIAISON SECTION, FBI
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NO FOREIGN DISSEM
(classification) (dissem controls)
PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

WITH HIS TERM ON 1 SEPTEMBER.)
2. ON 28 AUGUST 1967, AGENTS OF THE MINISTRY OF GOVERN-
MENT (GOBERNACION) ARRESTED FEDERAL DEPUTY CESAR DEL ANGEL AS
HE WAS LEAVING THE HOME OF ELENA GARRO DE PAZ, LEFTIST MEXICAN
PLAYWRIGHT, HE IS BEING INTERROGATED ABOUT HIS ROLE IN THE
"ACAPULCO MURDERS."
3. FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FBI CINCSO
REPORT CLASS: CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
