2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form Date: 5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10279-10020
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-221-1792

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 08/30/1967
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: EGD, CLASH, RIVAL FACTIONS, COPRA GROWERS UNION, ACAPULCO
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Confidential
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/30/1998
OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS:

***

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
Intelligence Information Cable ROUTINE

IN-41475

PAGE 1 of 2 PAGES

STATE/INR NMCC/MC DIA (SECDEF JCS ARMY NAVY AIR) CIA/NMCC NIC USIA NSA OCR SDO AID
ONE ORR DCS CGS
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C.
Secs. 793. and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT. NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE.
CITE TDCS-314/13013-67

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L 300659Z REC 18 DIST 30 AUGUST 1967
COUNTRY: MEXICO
DOI: 28 AUGUST 1967
SUBJECT: ARREST OF FEDERAL DEPUTY CESAR DEL ANGEL FUENTES
FOR AGITATIONAL ACTIVITIES IN GUERRERO

ACQ: MEXICO, MEXICO CITY (29 AUGUST 1967) FIELD REPORT
NO. HMM-11,295
SOURCE: MEXICAN SECURITY OFFICER WITH ACCESS TO INFORMATION

DERIVED FROM INVESTIGATIVE ACTIVITIES. HIS REPORTING
HAS BEEN RELIABLE SINCE EARLY 1966.
ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 9-18-95 5668SLD/KSR

1. (FIELD COMMENT: THE ROLE OF FEDERAL DEPUTY FROM THE
STATE OF VERACRUZ, CESAR DEL ANGEL FUENTES, IN THE CLASH BE-
TWEEN RIVAL FACTIONS OF THE COPRA GROWERS IN ACAPULCO,
GUERRERO, OVER THE WEEKEND OF 19-20 AUGUST 1967, RESULTING
IN THE DEATH OF ABOUT THIRTY PERSONS AND THE WOUNDING OF ABOUT
ONE HUNDRED, HAS BEEN WIDELY PUBLICIZED IN THE MEXICAN PRESS.
THERE HAS BEEN SPECULATION THAT HE WOULD BE ARRESTED, BUT FOR
HIS CONGRESSIONAL IMMUNITY. HIS IMMUNITY, HOWEVER, EXPIRES

7 SEP 111967 C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NO FOREIGN DISSEM 109-12-22:

***

279-10020

AUG 31 11 45 AM '67
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-IAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM

IN-41475

TDCS -314/13013-67
PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

(classification) (dissem controls)

WITH HIS TERM ON 1 SEPTEMBER.)
2. ON 28 AUGUST 1967, AGENTS OF THE MINISTRY OF GOVERN-
MENT (GOBERNACION) ARRESTED FEDERAL DEPUTY CESAR DEL ANGEL AS
HE WAS LEAVING THE HOME OF ELENA GARRO DE PAZ, LEFTIST MEXICAN
PLAYWRIGHT. HE IS BEING INTERROGATED ABOUT HIS ROLE IN THE
"ACAPULCO MURDERS."
3. FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FBI CINCSO
REPORT CLASS: CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
