2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 5/21/201

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10225-10195
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-114543-1ST NR 224

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO : 
TITLE:

DATE: 01/19/1965
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: MR, CUBAN INVASION, COST, MILITARY MOBILIZATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS:

v9.1
NW 50953 DocId:32299415 Page 1
20
When Filled Ini

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
Intelligence Information Cable • ROUTINE

COUNTRY CUBA TDCSDB-315/00171-65
DATE OF
INFO. JANUARY 1964 EARLY JANUARY 1965 DISTR: 19 JANUARY 1.965

SUBJECT
COST OF MOBILIZATION OF CUBAN ARMED FORCES
AND EFFORT TO ECONOMIZE

PLACE &
DATE ACQ. UNITED STATES, MIAMI (18 JANUARY 1965) REF IN 622.96
D-AAP-06300
FIELD REPORT NO. UFG-6535
SOURCE
AND
APPRAISALA HIGHLY PLACED CUBAN OFFICIAL WHO HAS PROVIDED DOCUMENTARY S
INFORMATION WHICH HAS BEEN CONSIDERED RELIABLE SINCE FEBRUARY
1964.
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED 
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
IN THIS DOCUMENT. Except for THE DATE/1-224-5SPY MAC Portal
BRACKETS IM 6-25-97
(SLD INSR 8-2-97 JFK)
1. DURING THE YEAR 1964, THE ESTIMATED COST OF MOBILIZATION PER.

MAN PER DAY TO THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT WAS $5.01 PESOS. THE 32-DAY
MOBILIZATION OF. 51,ØØØ MEN IN THE SPRING OF 1964 REPORTEDLY COST
THE MINISTRY OF THE ARMED FORCES A MINIMUM OF $8,176,320 PESOS.

(FIELD COMMENT: THIS MOBILIZATION TOOK PLACE BEFORE AND AFTER 20
MÁY WHEN AN INVASION ATTEMPT BY EXILE FORCES. LED BY MANUEL RAY RIVERO
WAS ANTICIPATED BY THE CASTRO GOVERNMENT.

2. DURING LATE DECEMBER 1 1964 AND EARLY
19. JAN 26 1965
TION OF 17.0 MEN FOR NINE DAYS RESULTED IN A MINIMUM COST OF
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Saplonage
Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is
prohibited by law.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM
STATEJINR
SECDEF NSANIC XAX USIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS DIA
CIA/NMCC NPIC
TREASURY AD/CI I&NS

GROUP 1
Extruded tram automatic
namding and
ification

OOXFBI FBT)
ORIGINAL FILED IN

NW 50953 DocId:32299415 Page 2
