157-10002-10106
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date:09/30/93
Page:1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10002-10106

RECORDS SERIES:
TRANSCRIPT

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: R-398

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:
TESTIMONY OF WILLIAM K. HARVEY

DATE: 06/25/75
PAGES: 96104

SUBJECTS:
OPERATION MONGOOSE
ROSELLI, JOHNNY
CASTRO
ASSASSINATION
POISON PILLS
CUBA
MCCONE, JOHN
CIA
BISSELL, RICHARD
WHITE HOUSE
MAFIA
ROWAN, DAN
GIANCANA, SAM

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: T
RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/30/93

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:
Box 245
Folder 14

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 50955 DocId: 32281946 Page 1

SECRET
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSTION AND/OR
RELEASE THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED

HARVEY EX! R371
6/25/75

21 JUN 94 Project ZRRIFLE

1. Identifications: The purpose of Project ZRRIFLE is
to spot, develop, and use force agent assets for Divisie D...
po operations. Agents will be spotted in several areas
micluding this Huited States, buit die poster for operatisual
security masous will probably not be used in there
countries of residence. Present developmental activity is
bening conducted in the WE and EE areas, but it
is muticipated that this will be extended to otties divisioй
areas. The project will be operated against third-country.
mistallationce and personnel.

2. Objectivce: The objective of this propet is the
Accor and in accordance with
requirements levied on the Clandective Semuasر
The Male hince these requirenients are
subject to frequent revision, no listing of targets would
be valid for the duration of the project. Specific
operations will be mounted on the basis of nied and
opportunity. The profect will be conducted by Division
D with assistance from area divisions and stations as
needed.
RECE
JUN 24 1975
CIA

3. Background: Au response to the increasing requirements.
torie, Drvision D in 1960 begon the spotting of
Id: 32281946 Pagtut arests as a developmental activity. During the same

SECRET

2
-period requirements for A became more
many respects more sensitics
refined and in
Because most statisus ampl
not equipped to conduct this type of operatise and because
of the desirability of completely centralized control over this.
entine effort, it was determined that Division D
best conduct the activity. The first spotting activity.
has now advanced for ensugh to fustify removing from
Ahe ODA category,
4 operational assets :
could

(1) Personnel: QJWIN is under writter
contract as a principal agent, with the primary task of
spotting agent candidates. Juin was first contacted in
Chi
Bateriile in connectione riothe
an illegal narcotics operation into the United States. For
a period of a year and a half half he was contracted some to
sporadically in behalf of the
Bureau of Narcoties Files of this Bureau reflect
an cellent performance by Jivin One 1960,
October
d:32281946 age-3-
RECEN
JUN 24 1975
CIA

SECRET

3
fumin annual salavy... 7,200
Travel & ops expenses for
Quin & other agents & agerit candidates : 2,000
Pees for servies by and
standley of agents and
agent candidates 2,000
Travel of staff employees
engaged in Zorifle activity :
Hive of safehouses, automobiles
2,000
and other operationed expenses: 1,000
$14,700
Pay for agents on completion of jobs?
REC
JIN 24-1975
CIA
d: 32281946 Page 4

SECRET

4
1). Liyal, ethical morale, operational problems; pstitical: non-attribute-
belite,
2) Our som experience) (+efleston DDP) and expernicie
W/KGB (require miset
prosfisusual, proven operationally competent, reittilene, stalile,
CE-experienced ope officers (feur available), able to conduct patient
search & ufguts to pull back if mistist or knowledge tetlis lire
ows from high regood for operational security.
he should & Assessments are all-important.
3) Maximum security:

d:32281946 Page 5
a. Rubark only (s. g., wlist does
herow?); no approach to other sont agencies
b. Within Kubak, one focal point for coutral,
search, tracing, case officerung i eto - DDParthority
in this focal ponit mandatory. Dei officially, admind?
c. Max. security cable commo for iimocuous
caliter ouly; no restrictions on travel; possibilots
of one-man overcess (Europe) control base witte.
own (non-station) common word of mouth t
no backfulness ve tortis
(except for search)
d. No PA's or intermediaries; rigid case-officering,
from start to finish.
e. No approach to officials of foreign
gaut
buy
JUN 24 1975
f. no use of anytes any agent who
LTA
worked for a A. Hort. agency Tracing.
by opposition would reved.
g. Use af already tested assets (eng.).
Markel in the searchs
le. Stand-by list of barbers who can

SECRET

5
pass as foreigners.
seavel; this estetilishe des. Pred
i. Pretut slavel.;
:
f. two discursus in stations. th. No tengistall.
4. Blackmail.
a. Ho American citizens or residents or
people who wer ditenied vis. venas
b. No chain of convestisic: strictly person to
percong singleton opt...
e. No matting any candidato in liome tantory.
d. Exclude organizations as, thore
wpecard of averts, those of metebility of purpire
as eximinals..
e. Ataffers mučalued-selictisis.
5. Cover: planning should miclude provision for
Ailelaning Pleaning Sous or sechs in case
of bilsv
following directione...
of nominees essentialime
& Vesting of
security, blackmail.
7. Former resistance personnel a possibility.
8. Wie nobody who has never death of criminals; otherwise
anill pust be aware of pitfalls or consider factors such
as folllom to traud, wanted lists, itd...
Id:32281946 Page 6
ancholile
10. Possibili use of staffers for the action.
Silve thorne
Keeping of files.
RECEIVED FROM
JUN 24 1975
CIA

SECRET
freeld in to travel 6
Legal; operationial + ethical morale problen proklos.
mstrecura.enough.
esce
1) Maximum security + within Rubarf only (1.9, how much
downow-kuoro?). Primitation on number code
Sluise of objective..
2) one forest pouit for resoch, control, tracing care officer+PA
selection. Complete DDP authority in this focal point ricedstory.
Overseas one-man control base witts own fonon-thtion) commo
3) Every operation to fie nigibly case-officered; no silk-sert
PAR.
Non-attributability:
4) ho American citizen or flimovican residents for dvect actione;
pocally for approach to foreign elements. No criminal.
who taunted by use by another American agency fee of
esse officers who com pass os foreigners and limited
official referencks.
5) no chain of prenections permitting blackmail.
6) Don't meet any selectie in houve territory.

7) Avard discursion of foreign officials mitet all possibility,
of search through private citizens (e-g. Oferin) hos
:32281946 Page 7
billy Waled.
! RECEIVED FROM
01 24 1975
blaming
CIA
8) Planning should include provision for ble
Novieto (or Gechs) in case of blow is 4 above essential.
9) Exclude organization Orminals, there witts record of
arvests, those neko have lugaged in several tippes of crime.

SECRET

11) Former recitance personnel offer possibilities, (OSS
archuries
12) Period of testing, furveillance, ito. for each
seloster.
fuel involved should have some CE
13) All Ruberh
all Ruberk peresfuel
experrerice.
14) stable
15) What are limits on team or individuals sob
selected? Mo "tam until ready to go.
16/ Danger of stardlys,
Id:32281946
Page 8
7
RECEIVED THOM
JUN 24 1975
CIA

ied マー25/1
SECRET
yee @ction
8
"The Magic button
parcotics Büro
"fora lung".....
Canon
eyes- Jum. A..
nat Tso em
AIS 201 cover..
Burity to Stor
From 0-ج
apply brakes...
Last resort beyout last resol &
Ce confessions in wakuees:
El Benefactor
acsumptious-
Exampься 3 "мощ"
Frank of Joh
Sear

Anathesia -
-
Merno
26/1
Fame 200/- matter
no-fil Reser
RECU
JAM 24 1975
CIA
1. Select proper ofern to ren -
2
3. Security Rules
4. leves
3
B-WINN-AS-
Resew.
d: 32281946 Rage
Resort Bikes - Sub
7.

SECRET

6. 20
7. no project
or popen
except per cover.
8. Principal agent.
Profil chaft FCH-
Aicbel 1500-proση
B.
mach fata del a
project-be Phake
A. Disposeel -
10. Targets ruborilers
Mlist Brow before
we can pay -
11. Case officering

15-
7d Jest - Remember
Id:32281946 Page 10
RECLAVE FROM
JUN 24 1975
CIA
