157-10002-10165
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
:
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10002-10165
RECORDS SERIES :
TRANSCRIPT
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : R-696
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM :
ΤΟ :
TITLE :
TESTIMONY OF DAVID ATLEE PHILLIPS
DATE: 07/31/75
PAGES: 178
!
SUBJECTS :
CIA
CUBA
CASTRO
LANSKY, MEYER
BAY OF PIGS
ASSASSINATION
TRAFFICANTE, SANTOS
RUBY, JACK
CHILE
ALLENDE
OPERATION MONGOOSE
1
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: P.
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/30/93
OPENING CRITERIA:
Box 256
Folder 14
COMMENTS:
NW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 1
[R]
ITEM IS RESTRICTED
Date: 10/05/93
Page:1

TOP SECRET
10
1
Mr. Phillips. I did not.
2
Mr. Schwarz.
Did you know Jack Ruby?
3
Mr. Phillips. No, I did not.
4
Mr. Schwarz.
Do youknow him under the name of Ruben-
5
stein?
6
Mr. Phillips. I did not.
7
Mr. Schwarz. What did you do between your work in Cuba
8
and the Chile matter which you were going to spend most of your
9
time on?
10
Mr. Phillips.
After the Bay of Pigs business I went to
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
Mexico in late in 1961, and remained in Mexico until the very
early part of 1965, when I was assigned to the Dominican
Republic as chief of Station
Mr. Schwarz. And then
Mr. Phillips. I stayed in the Dominican Republic until
the summer of 1967.
And after that I returned to Washington and became
the Chief of Cuban Operations through 1969.
In 1970 I went to Rio de JanierodaseStation Chief And
20
21
in 1971, I suffered the traumatic shock of being moved to
Brasilia from Rio de Janiero.
22
In 1972 I went to Venezuela as the Chief of Station
23
And in the summer of 1973 I was asked to return as Chief of
24
the then Western Hemisphere Division.
25
Mr. Schwarz.
And is that the position you held until
TOP SECRET
NW 50955 DocId:32282005 Page 2

TOP SECRET
14
1
or the other which would enable you to form a judgment as
2
3
4
5
to his attitude toward either the subject of assassination or
the question as to what kind of an explicit order would be
necessary in order to justify Agency actions to actually
assassinate some one.
6
Mr. Phillips. No, because I never heard Mr. Helms even
7
8
get that close to the edge of such talk about such and such an
option or possibility, I never heard him talk that way.
9
10
Mr. Schwarz. Did you ever hear anybody in the Agency
talk that way?
11
Mr. Phillips.
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
Under traumatic conditions I have heard
human beings maybe with a few drinks or something like that
saying, my God, we would be better off if so and so were
bumped off or something.
But I have never heard two officers sit down and
seriously talk about such an option. And if anyone has ever
said that, it is the same way some people might get out of line
and say almost anything.
19
Mr. Schwarz.
Did you ever hear, in connection with
20
21
22
the Chile operation, that certain Chilean officers, specifi-
cally a Major Marshall, report reported to the CIA that they intended
to assassinate Allende?
23
Mr. Phillips. It was five years ago. But as I recall,
24
Major Marshall said a number of things. He was what I think
25
of as a wild man.
I seem to recall something about, yes, a
TOP SECRET
NW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 3

TOP SECRET
30
1
Mr. Schwarz.
And you offered through Colonel Wimert,
2 whom we will come to in a moment, $50,000 if they could
Mr. Phillips. That is true.
Mr. Schwarz. And subsequently you provided to the Val-
3
accomplish it, didn't you?
4
Mr. Phillips. I think that was the correct sum, yes.
5
mr. Schwarz. And you gave them prior to their attempt
6
on the 19th of October some tear gas and some gas masks to
7
help accomplish the kidnapping?
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
enzuela group some machine guns, didn't you?
Mr. Phillips. That is ture.
Mr. Schwarz. And those were going to be used in a
kidnapping effort by the Valenzuela group, and you knew that,
didn't you?
Mr. Phillips. I recall that they were going to be
used by the group, and that kidnapping was a part of their
plans. I can't recall that they said they needed them spe-
cifically for the kidnapping. I do recall that the reason was
the automatic reaction from Latin America is, why do people
need arms when they have got arms everywhere all over Latin
America.
And they said something about, their own arms could be
identified, and they needed some that couldn't be identified.
I don't recall if it was specifically mentioned that it was
just for that. It was certainly understood that they might
TOP SECRET
NW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 4

44
Consequently, I personally made this proposal, that we
establish what I called a false flag base of people that would
go from outside, and should there be any sort of flap, the
chances of linking it to the U.S. Government would be much
less, because they would appear to be from another nationality.
is
Mr. Schwarz. I would like to read to you a cable
this cable of 27 September in the Senator's book? I know that
he asked for it after I came over.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Mr. Treverton.
It is not.
10
Mr. Schwarz. I am going to read from a cable which
11
unfortunately is not in your book, but the key part is
12
relatively simple.
13
This is a cable, Mr. Phillips, dated September 27, 1970,
14
and it is signed by yourself and Mr. Broe. And it is sent to
15
16
17
18
the Station in Chile, and it contains the following about the
purposes of setting up the false flag office
Mr. Phillips. We call it a base.
Mr. Schwarz. False flag bases: "Each member of base
19
will enter and leave Chile with falst documents and operate as
20
a representative of his country rather than as anAmerican".
21
That is right, isn't it?
22
Mr. Phillips. That is true.
23
Mr. Schwarz. Continue:
24
"Having at least one key Brazilian and one key Argentinian
25 would be vital, and we have candidates."
NW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 5
TOP SECRET

IUP SECRET
45
1
And you did that.
2
Mr. Phillips.
Yes.
3
Mr. Schwarz.
And then it goes on as follows:
"These
4
officers will perform the delicate shows with great flap
5
6
potential which cannot be done by Station personnel or any
Chilean."
7
8
That is right, isn't it?
Mr. Phillips. That is true.
9
Mr.Schwarz. And by flap potential you meant exposure?
10
Mr. Phillips. Contacting screwballs such as Marshall,
11 that sort of thing.
12
Mr. Schwarz.
But generally pursuing the Track II
13
activities?
14
Mr. Phillips. That is right.
15
Mr. Schwarz. Continuing: "An example. We have can-
16
17
18
19
20
21
didates who can successfully pose as Brazilian intelligence
officers." You did that, didn't you?
Mr. Phillips. Yes.
Mr. Schwarz. And this goes on: "If he approached, funded
and ran a Chilean General, any flap would be a Brazilian one".
Mr. Phillips. Yes.
22
Mr. Schwarz. So the scheme was that not only would
23
the U.S. not be blamed, but other countries like Brazil would
24
be blamed if something went wrong.
25
Mr. Phillips. Yes, this is particularly sensitive to me,
:
TOP SECRET
NW 50955 DocId:32282005 Page 6

TOP SECRET
46
1
because my daughter happens to be married to a Brazilian
2
foreign service officer! However, that was it. It was a
3
devious move. It was the final result
the idea being that
4
if such a flap did occur, someone would think it was someone
5
other than the U.S.
The idea of false flag operations is
6
not a new one. The idea I had of going to someone and saying,
7
8
why don't you be a spy for us, I don't work for the Soviets,
is not true.
9
But this is sort of new, the fact that action agents
10
should pose as others.
And yes, it is devious, but that
11
was the idea.
12
Senator Hart of Colorado.
Mr. Phillips, what were
13
14
their instructions if they were to be caught? Were they to go
to their death swearing they were Brazilians or whatever?
15
16
17
18
19
20
Mr. Phillips. I don't think it was quite that dramatic,
Senator. They came to Washington before they went down. And
I briefed them,and I think what I said to them was, this
is going to be a tough and sensitive one, and you don't have
to go if you don't want to, because you culd get in real trouble.
And if you get in trouble, I am not sure we can help
21
you.
22
So, they shrugged their shoulders and went.
23
Mr. Schwarz. Did you tell the Brazilians that you were
24
sending someone down to pose as a Brazilian, and his instruc-
25
tions were that if he were caught he was to continue to pose
NW 50955 DocId:32282005 Page 7
TOP SECRET

47
1
as a Brazilian and the Brazilians were approached?
2
Mr. Phillips.
It never occurred to us in our wildest
15
dreams to do that.
4
Mr. Schwarz.
I suppose the relationships between con-
5
6
7
8
9
tinuing intelligence services were things that were
very important to preserve, and that we had very close and
delicate relationships with the otherfintelligence services.
Mr. Phillips. We do. And if there had been such a
man the Brazilians would be quite unhappy with us. But I
thought that was better than letting the world know that was
11 a U.S. Citizen down there.
10
12
Mr. Schwarz. You go on in the cable of September 27
to say this:
"Headquarters believes this false flag was manned by
officers who have repeatedly proved their ability to operate
and recruit under false colors, will give Station great flexi-
bility in handling delicate and fast-moving situations secure-
ly."
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
So, the use of false flag persons, at least judging
20
from this cable, is something repeatedly done by the CIA?
21
22
23
Mr. Phillips. Yes, and by all intelligence services
not all, but all major intelligence services. If you are living
overseas and a man comes up to you and says, hey, I see you
24
are a Marxist, and a man comes up and says, I am from Havana
25
and we would like you to work with the Cuban intelligence
TOP SECRET
NW 50955 DocId:32282005 Page 8

TOP SECRET
48
1
service, he might not be from Havana, he might be from the
2
Soviets, from us, or from the Brazilians.
13
4
Mr. Schwarz.
So, it is not an unusual practice.
Incidentally, you just let drop one thing
5
6
in your testimony a moment ago. You said that in your 25-year
involvement with intelligence matters you had been bothered
7
8
by your activities on only two occasions, one of which was
Chile.
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
And then you said what the other one was. What was that?
Mr. Phillips. I was in Washington attending the Chiefs
of Station course, which is a training course for people who
are going out on their first assignment as Chief of Station.
When President Johnson decided to send 22,000 Marines
to the Dominican Republic, it occurred to me that in order to
protect and evacuate American citizens, that that job might
have been done with 400 Marines. I was scheduled to go there
17
18
wanted to be associated with something like that. But I de-
19
20
as the Chief of Station. And I just wasn't sure that I
cided, well, I suppose President Johnson knows what he is
doing, I will go I am going to go along. So, I did go
21
along.
22
Senator Schweiker.
One question on your differentiation
23
between where you drew a personal commitment line on assassin-
24
ations, but not overthrow. I have trouble quite understanding
25
it, because as I understand Chile, the plot was to overthrow
NW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 9
TOP SECRET

10P SECRET
55
1
Mr. Phillips.
There is no question that I could under-
2
3
stand why anyone concerned with world affairs, looking at
Chile and what was happening there, would be concerned.
4
Salvadore Allende made his first statement saying that
5
6
he was a Socialist and wanted to change the order some 32
years beforehe was elected.
7
8
Over the years he made it quite clear that he was an ar-
dent socialist.
Before this decision was made I believe that
9
10
11
we had a visit from a man who had the code name of Ariel, he
was a Cuban intelligence officer. The Cubans were moving in
rapidly.
The influence was great. I think that they saw a lot
12
13
14
at stake, another Cuba in Latin America type of thing, the
same thing perhaps that motivated President Johnson to send
22,000 rather than 400.
15
So, I can understand why they
thought this was going,
16
in the long strategic sense, in the
long range against our
17
interests.
But that is an assumption.
18
19
It is true that Allende very definitely made it clear
that he wanted to turn Chile into a Marxist state. The differ-
20
21
22
23
ence was that Allende refused to take Fidel Castro's advice
and use violence. As I understand it, Fidel Castro went to
Chile and said, if you want your revolution to last you are
going to have to use violence.
24
I found it interesting to read in this morning's paper
25 where someone from Portugal came back from Cuba and said,
NW 50955 DocId:32282005 Page 10
TOP SECRET

1
2
activities?
Mr. Phillips. No, sir. I was the Station Chief in
59
3
4
Rio de Janiero in Brazil, and was called back in 1970 for
six or seven weeks for what we are referring to as Track II.
5
6
7
8
Senator Mondale. Now, in that position you familiarized
yourself with the Chilean government, Allende and so on,
and tried to become as expert as you could in the political
forces and so on?
9
Mr. Phillips.
Yes. And in addition to that, Senator,
10
11
one of the reasons I was called back was that I had lived
for many years in Chile, so I knew something about it.
12
Senator Mondale. And it is your judgment as I think I
14
15
16
.17
13 just heard, that although Allende was a Marxist, and espoused
Marxism, he also said he wanted to achieve this through the
democratic process, and although there was some rough stuff
on the press, and so on, essentially that was the course he
was pursuing, is that correct?
18
Mr. Phillips.
I don't recall that he said it, but
19
he indeed acted that way.
20
Senator Mondale. But in fact the course he was pur-
21
suing was an attempt to achieve the Marxist philosophy with
22
the population support under constitutional system?
23
Mr. Phillips.
Yes, essentially that is true, sir.
24
Senator Mondale.
Thank you.
25
Mr. Schwarz.
I would like to read to you in connection
TOP SECRET
NW 50955 DocId:32282005 Page 11

TOP SECRET
65
1
assignment by the President and by the White House?
2
3
4
5
6
Mr. Phillips. Senator, it doesn't make any difference
today. On the contrary, since Watergate the people say, why h
should we? Before Watergate it was another ball game.
The President was the Commander in Chief in every sense of the
word.
7
8
And you said, who am I, a GS-15 bureaucrat, to say that
we shouldn't do this? But that has changed since Watergate.
9
Senator Hart of Colorado.
10
One other question.
I call your attention in our briefing books to what is
11
12
13
Tab C, a cable which has your name at the end of it dated 21
September 1970, page 3 of 7. Are you an author or co-author
of that cable?
14
Mr. Phillips. I believe I was the authenticating
15
officer, yes.
16
Senator Hart of Colorado.
What does that mean?
17
Mr. Phillips. That meant that the signature on the
18
right of those cables is someone that is the authenticating
19
20
officer in a sense, here is a fellow that is supposed to know
the situation.
21
22
23
Senator Hart of Colorado. But who wrote it, I guess
is what I am after.
Mr. Phillips. I would guess that this cable was probably
24
written by Mr. Poinzio, and perhaps myself, perhaps it was
25
joint. But Mr. Poinzio wrote an awful lot of them. But by
TOP SECRET
:
NW 50955
DocId:32282005 Page 12

IP SCUREI
66
1
putting my signature on the authenticating part I said I was
2
a part of it. And then, of course, the releasing officer is
3
the one that accepts the responsibility.
4
Senator Hart of Colorado.
Page 3 of 7 which has
5
the paragraph identified as the paragraph F contains the follow-
6
ing sentence or part of a sentence: You suggest sending
7
us cables outlining objectives and course of events, et
8
cetera, and he said, always conditioned by the fact that we have
9
10
to keep our feet in the mud of practicality, and our eyes
on the stars.
11
12
Mr. Phillips.
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
What does that mean in Agency talk?
Senator, I want to assure you with real
seriousness that I am not the author of that phrase.
Senator Hart of Colorado. It must have caught your eye,
however.
Mr. Phillips. It did catch my eye. If this was indeed
a joint venture, I can promise that that was Dino Poinzio's
contribution, and if you ever meet him you will understand
why. He was addicted to picturesque speech. And looking
back, all I can say is that it probably went out at four
o'clock in the morning, and we were very tired, and I just
didn't want to argue about that phrase, and I let it go. I
21
22
23
am not sure what it means even now.
24
SEnator Hart of Colorado.
Neither am I. But it seems
25
to describe a lot of what we have heard around here for the
NW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 13
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET
76
1
Now, I read that as Helms' position being that the
2
3
4
5
assassination of Schneider was something which presented the
opportunity for the very thing that the U.S. wished to have
done.
Do you agree with me?
6
Mr. Phillips. No, I can't agree with you on that. I am
7
8
9
10.
11
12
13
14
not sure about the suggestion from the language. But I will
tell you the immediate reaction in our little task force when
the word came that Schneider was dead, that is it, it is finished
Knowing Chileans, the moment that that violence occurred,
Chileans, with the possible exception of a nut such as
Marshall, immediately said, this is it, that is enough. There
was still that tradition over the years. And I think that the
moment we heard of it and we discussed it we said, that is
15
it, there will be no more. In many countries in Latin America
16
17
18
that would have been the signal for further action, weakness,
and so forth. But in this case it was the end of the
business.
19
20
Mr. Schwarz. I want to run through with you the activi
ties which were being undertaken with the Valenzuela group
21
and with the Viaux group. In the case of Viaux, was that one
22
23
of the assignments that the false flag officers had?
Mr. Phillips. Yes.
24
Mr. Schwarz. And in the case of Valenzuela, was that
NW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 14
25 one of the assignments that Colonel Wimert had?
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET
77
1
Mr. Phillips.
Wimert Yes, I believe it was Colonel
2
Wimert that was in touch with that group.
15
3
Mr. Schwarz.
And the two teams worked in tandem,
4
didn't they?
5
Mr. Phillips.
Are you referring to Chilean teams?
6
Mr. Schwarz.
No, the false flag team and colonel
7
Wimert.
8
Mr. Phillips. Only in the sense that there might have
9
10
11
been some central direction from the office or from headquar-
ters. I don't believe that anyone of the false flaggers had
the slightest idea that Colonel Wimert was working with us.
12
13
And I don't believe that Colonel Wilmert -- I don't know that
Colonel Wimert knew about them.
14
15
So, no, they didn't work in tandem, except in sense of
direction from the Station.
16
Mr. Schwarz.
Headquarters down there, and you in
17
Washington, were working with both the Valenzuela groupand
18
the Viaux group?
19
Mr. Phillips. Yes, sir.
20
21
Senator Hart of Colorado. Are you in a chain here,
counsel?
22
Mr. Schwarz. I am in a chain, but it is easily interrup-
23
tible.
24
Senator Hart of Colorado.
Mr. Phillips, did we
25
chronologically
maybe the staff can answer that, I am just
TOP SECRET
NW 50955 DocId:32282005 Page 15

TOP SECRET
92
1
2
Viaux group was really acting in order to carry out step one
of the Valenzuela group's plan?
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Mr. Phillips. Yes, to address this point specifically.
Obviously when the guns were passed through colonel Wimert
and the death occurred so soon after, immediately we
thought they probably used those guns. It was then when we
read the press reports that General Schneider died from hand-
gun wounds. And that was the first time we thought we could
really be sure in our own mind that it wasn't directly
the Valenzuela group using those guns.
Mr. Schwarz. What about the gas masks that had
been furnished earlier? WAsn't there evidence that there
were gas masks in the care of the persons who attempted to
abduct General Schneider?
Mr. Phillips. I don't recall. There may very well have
been, but I am not real sure about that.
Mr. Schwarz. I am going to go to another area, which
is the relationship with Colonel Wimert. If there are any
questions on the relationship between the two groups.
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
these various conspirators, it says:
"Valenzuela meets with
25
US Army attache and gives him a 15 point plan for coup to be
TOP SECRET
Senator Hart of Colorado. Concerning the October 19
attempts, under Tab 4 on page 7 of the longer memorandum
by Dianne LaVoy under October 18 there is reference to a cable
A66 dated October 19. And concerning the connection of
NW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 16

TOP SECRET
93
1
2
3
15
4
5
6
7
8
9
carried out on October 19. The Huerth, who was head of the
Carabineros, witting of the above plan, has promised to keep
the Carabineros away from the Schneier houseto assure that the
abduction will not be interferred with. General Viaux is
knowledgeable of the above operation, but is not directly
involved."
What do you think "not directly involved" refers to?
Why not just not involved?
Mr. Phillips. I think that probably referred to what
10
11
I was saying before, that in these situations it is not very
unusual that there is not some talk that everybody has a cousin
12
that works with some group type of thing.
13
And I believe that it must refer to that.
14
Mr. Schwarz. Taking the actual cable, is the actual
15
cable in the Senator's books?
16
Mr. Inderfurther.
No.
17
Mr. Schwarz. Let me read the full text of that para-
18
19
graph from the cable. It is a cable apparently dated 19
October on the subject of General Viaux:
20
21
directly involved.
"General Viaux, knowledgeable of above operation, but not
He has been sent to Vina to stay with
22
prominent physician.
Will be seen in public places during 19
23
and 20 October to demonstrate fact that above operation is
24
25
not his doing. Will be allowed to return to Santiago at end of
week."
TOP SECRET
NW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 17

TOP SECRET
94
1
2
15
3
4
Now, I can't read that language any way other than
meaning that the Valenzuela group and the Viaux group were in
close cooperation, that was part of the abduction plan, it
was agreed between the two that Viaux would appear would
5
be out of town so that he would not appear to be involved.
6
7
8
And you have to read that, do you not, as meaning that there
was a close cooperation on this effort between the two groups.
Mr. Phillips. Yes, I think you do have to read it that
9
way.
10
Miss Culbreth.
Would you identify that paper more
11
than just the statement?
12
Mr. Phillips. Cable sent to headquarters A66.
13
Mr. Schwarz. No. A66, eyes only to
14
Mr. Inderfurth.
DCOS, which was Becksher.
15
Mr. Treverton. It is Tab M, it is in the book.
16
Mr. Schwarz. I think we ought to mark that as an ex-
17
hibit.
18
19
(The document referred to was
marked Phillips Exhibit No. 2
20
for identification.)
21
22
23
24
25
TOP SECRET
NW 50955 DocId:32282005 Page 18

TOP SECRET
101
1
As for the narrow part of your question, by all means
2
it is a bad way to do business.
3
מו
Senator Schweiker.
Go ahead.
4
Mr. Schwarz.
Picking up on Senator Schweiker's line
5
6
of quesioning, would you show the witness Tab A, the docu-
ment Tab A.
7
8
9
10
It is a memorandum for the record by Mr. Broe dated 17
September, and then that is crossed out and it says 16 Sep-
tember, "Subject, Genesis of Project".
Incidentally, what was the code name for this project?
11 Was it FU Belt?
12
Mr. Phillips. Beltway or FU Belt, one of the two.
13
14
Mr. Schwarz. Does FU stnd for anything in particular?
Mr. Phillips. Chile. So it would be FU. The first two
15
letters there indicate a geographical araa. So it would beba
16 lot of different ones, but that would mean Chile. FU Belt
17 means Chile. Belt means nothing.
18
Mr. Schwarz.
Everybody keeps saying that so many of
19
these things mean nothing. Who is responsible for these
20
names?
21
Mr. Phillips.
There is somebody who is supposed to have
22
a big liest to make sure that they were not duplicated.
23
And I think sometimes there is a pixie-like quality that comes
24
out in those things.
25
Senator Schweiker. That is an understatement, to call
NW 50955 DocId:32282005 Page 19

1
it pixie-like.
2
Mr. Phillips.
IUP SECRET
But many times the cryptonums mean ab-
solutely nothing, they have no meaning at all.
4
Senator Schweiker.
SRRIFLE, ROGUE ELEPHANT
5
Mr. Phillips. I am sorry, sir.
6
Senator Schweiker.
We have come across a few other good
7
ones.
8
9
10
11
Mr. Schwarz. I don't know if you have ever seen that
document, and it doesn't matter. But the end of paragraph 2
indicates that the instructions from the President concluded:
"The Agency is to carry out this mission without
12 coordination with the Department of State or Defense".
13
Mr. Phillips.
Yes.
14
Mr. Schwarz.
And that was your instruction?
15
Mr. Phillips.
That is correct.
16
Mr. Schwarz. Now, in fact, of course, you did use in
17
Chile a man called Colonel Wimert.
18
Mr. Phillips. Yes.
19
Mr. Schwarz.
And he was in the Defense Department?
20
Mr. Phillips.
That is correct.
21
Mr. Schwarz.
And he was assigned
he was instructed
22
23
to take his instructions only from the CIA inChile, is that
right?
24
Mr. Phillips. Yes.
25
Mr. Schwarz. And he was instructed indeed not to tell
TOP SECRET
NW 50955 DocId: 32282005 Page 20
102

4
TOP SECRET
103
1
his superior in Chile, the man who was in charge of the
2
defense attache system down there?
3
Mr. Phillips. That is true, sir.
Mr. Schwarz. Wimert was the man from the Army and then
5
6
there was someone else in the Air Force, the Navy, and there
was a boss?
7
Mr. Phillips. That is right.
8
Mr. Schwarz.
And Wimert was told not to tell that boss?
9
Mr. Phillips.
I believe that is true, yes.
10
Mr. Schwarz.
Now, how did it happen that Colonel Wimert
11 came to work for and under the direction of the CIA?
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
Mr.