157-10011-10048 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form Date: 7/30/201

Agency Information
AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10011-10048
1
RECORD SERIES : TRANSCRIPT
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: TESTIMONY OF ROBERT MAHEU
DATE: 07/30/1975
PAGES: 95
SUBJECTS: ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL: GALANE, MORTON R.
GIANCANA, SAM
WIRETAPS
MAHEU, ROBERT
ROSELLI, JOHNNY
MAFIA CONNECTION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 1A; 1B; IC; 3; Donor Restricted
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/19/1994
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: SSCI Box 252, Folder 5

v9.1
NW 50955 DocId:32203816 Page 1
1

157-10011-
10048

NW 50955 DocId:32203816 Page 2
L

TOP SECRET

tape b
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
19
1 am not too far off in what I am about to tell you. The contract
2 was structured in such a way that as the bottoms of other
3 companies became obsolete, they could only be replaced with
4 Onassis' tankers. Even ARAMCO had to, by attrition, within a
5 period of four-and-a-half to five-and-a-half years, would have,
6 if their tankers became obsolete, they could only be replaced
7 by Onassis tankers.
8 Our statistics, after having studied the contract and
9 making what we considered to be proper projections, indicated
10 that at the completion of approximately five-and-a-half years,
11 Mr. Onassis would control more dead weight tonnage than the
WARD & PAUL
12 United States controlled in its entirety, that he would control
13 on the high seas annually more oil by tens of thousands of
14 gallons more than were used by all of the Allied nations during
15 the most severe year of the Korean War, that in the first year
16 his profit would be approximately $17 million dollars, that
17 after five-and-a-half years his annual profit would be in the
18 area of $200 million.
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
19 While this analysis is going on, we also found that a
20 million dollar pay-off had been made to one of the top ministers
21 in Saudi Arabia and we had the evidence
22 accounts, in other words, contrary to what a lot of people
23 believe that they can't be broken, even in those days, they were
24 broken and we had the evidence waltth all off the documentation.
25 We then prepared our inputs and presented them to the
TOP SECRET
NW 50955 DocId: 32203816 Page 3

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
20
1 National Security Council
2 Senator Huddleston. Of the United States?
3 Mr. Maheu. of the United States, and within a matter,
4 I believe, of forty-eight hours, our State Department
5 denounced the agreement. It was the first time that anyone
6 had actually seen what this meant, and frankly, there was an
7 innate fear that with the initial $17 million, then there would
8 be no way of stopping, I mean, he might go to Venezuela and
9 do the same thing, and there were also other inputs about the
10 background of Mr. Onassis that I would just as soon not make
11 a matter of record, but they were not too favorable, that we
12 presented to the National Security Council verbally but not
13 in writing.
14 Mr. Madigan. Who made the presentation?
15 Senator Schweiker. What subsequently happened then with
16 the Security Council denunciation, et cetera?
17 Mr. Madigan. The State Department denounced the agreement
18 and that same evening we were told that two fof the top-CIA
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
19 officials were on their way to Saudi Arabia.
20 Then I proceeded to dig up the gentleman by the name of
21 Carl Twitchell by virtue of reading about the country, because
22 I'm not about ready to go there and not know about the customs
23 and the formation of the country. I dug up a man by the name
24 of Carl Twitchell who was living in Connecticut who turned out
25 to be the first American who had ever really been accepted by
NW 50955 DocId: 32203816 Page 4
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET
20
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1 National Security Council
2 Senator Huddleston. Of the United States?
3 Mr. Maheu. of the United States, and within a matter,
4 I believe, of forty-eight hours, our State Department
5 denounced the agreement. It was the first time that anyone
6 had actually seen what this meant, and frankly, there was an
7 innate fear that with the initial $17 million, then there would
8 be no way of stopping, I mean, he might go to Venezuela and
9 do the same thing, and there were also other inputs about the
10 background of Mr. Onassis that I would just as soon not make
11 a matter of record, but they were not too favorable, that we
WARD & PAUL
12 presented to the National Security Council verbally but not
13 in writing.
14 Mr. Madigan. Who made the presentation?
15 Senator Schweiker. What subsequently happened then with
16 the Security Council denunciation, et cetera?
17 Mr. Madigan. The State Department denounced the agreement
18 and that same evening we were told that two
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
19 officials were on their way to Saudi Arabia.
20 Then I proceeded to dig up the gentleman by the name of
21 Carl Twitchelloby virtue of reading about the country, because
22 I'm not about ready to go there and not know about the customs
23 and the formation of the country. I dug up a man by the name
24 of Carl Twitchell who was living in Connecticut who turned out
25 to be the first American who had ever really been accepted by
NW 50955 DocId:32203816 Page 5
TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
21
1 old King Saud. Mr. Twitchell had spent time in the country
2 as a mining engineer to help them in the exploitation of
3 mines. It was in fact to Carl Twitchell that the old king gave
4 the power of attorney to come to the United States government
5 or come back to the United States and try to form a consortium
6 for the exploitation of oil from which emanated ARAMCO.
7 Carl was the type of man who was only reimbursed for his
8 expenses. I think his total expenses were slightly in excess
9 of $8,000. He didn't even keep the banking and percentage
10 for himself, or a piece of the action, so to speak, and he was
11 highly, highly loved by the Saudis and although the old king
12 was then gone and King Saud, the son, was in power, Mry
13 Twitchell had the same respect and reverence from the present
14 leaders as he did from the father and I convinced Mr. Twitchell
15 that he already had a clearance, a satisfactory clearance,
16 and I convinced him to precede me to Saudi Arabia to try to
17 lay the groundwork.
18 Senator Schweiker. What year was this, roughly?
i
19 Mr. Maheu. This, I believe, was in '54 or '55, yes.
20 Anyway, I finally ended up going to Saudi Arabia, having
21 a meeting with the King's confidential assistant, presenting all
22 of this evidence, frankly at the time not knowing if the King
23 himself had a piece of the action
24 Senator Huddleston. Had some of this evidence come from
25 the wiretap?
NW 50955 DocId: 32203816 Page 6
TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
22
1 Mr. Maheu. That tap was entirely unproductive, entirely
2 unproductive.
3 Senator Schweiker. What happened then at your meeting?
4 Mr. Maheu. Well, it's very interesting, if we could take
5 a little time, I mean, I was scheduled to have the meeting
6 "with the King," but he doesn't show, he stays somewhere else.
7 and the confidential assistant shows up and one trusted
8 minister that he had with Carl Twitchell present.
9 And my meeting was scheduled for 8:00p.m. one night, and
10 this happaned to be the last day that the King was supposed to
11 be in Jidda, he was then leaving for the capital further
12 inland, Jidda being the only major port in Saudi where he
:
13 spends his summers, and they were having a big parade for him,
14 and from the balcony of the hotel, I'm watching the parade go
15 by, and finally the King's car comes and he is arm and arm with
16 the nan on whom I'm going to give the evidence that night, and
17 I frankly was not too comfortable, particularly in view of the
18 fact that in those days and I don't know whether it has
19 changed, but in Saudi, the same document did not give you
20 permission to enter and leave; you had to make application for
21 an exit visa after you arrived, and I was in constant contact
22 with the then-United States Ambassador. He made it very clear
23 that the government approved of everything I was doing, but if
24 something went wrong they could not come to my rescue, I would
25 have to be the fall guy, and I was prepared to do it. That was
NW 50955 DocId: 32203816 Page 7
TOP SECRET

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
25
1 Saudi Arabian government would have its flag flying the high
2 seas, and at the time that all of this is going on they are
3 building what then, upon completion of production, had been
4 the biggest tanker in the world at that time, a ship named
5 after the old King, a tanker which was scheduled to go and take
6 a maiden flight and take off, and it turned out the biggest
7 :
problem that we had was to find a save-face gimmick. But
8 finally the whole thing was accomplished, and it took two and
9 a half years to do it.
10 Senator Schweiker. I didn't mean to get you off the
11 track.
12 Mr. Maheu. Well, I'm sorry I am so verbose.
13 Senator Huddleston. You said you bought a paper in
14 Athens? You mean by that you actually bought the paper or just
15 paid them to run the story?
16 Mr. Maheu. We bought a newspaper.
17 You'll have to understand, Senator, that in Rome, in those
18 days, there were fifty newspapers. I mean, the big circulation
19 in those days, big circulation in Rome was 20,000. It's hard
20 for us to visualize that.
21 Senator Huddleston. The CIA supplied the money to buy
22 the newspaper?
23 Mr. Maheu. Yes.
24 Can we go off the record?
25 Senator Schweiker. Yes.
NW 50955 DocId: 32203816 Page 8
TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
30
1 Mr. Liebengood. Was this listening post that you referred
2 to, was that a project that was related to work for the Central
3 Intelligence Agency?
4 Mr. Maheu. I don't believe it was.
5 Mr. Madigan. Did you have any New York assignments other
6 than Onassis that you gave to Frank?
7 Mr. Maheu. I don't remember any.
8 Mr. Madigan. How about Thomas Evans? I may have asked
9 you that yesterday. Do you recall whether he had any relation-
10 ship with your company during the 1950's?
11 Mr. Maheu. I don't remember a Thomas Evans Thomas
12 Evans?
13 Mr. Madigan. A CIA employee.
14 Mr. Maheu. I don't recall his name.
15 Mr. Madigan. I got sidetracked off of my question of
16 whether you recall a prosecution or an investigation of the
17 Onassis wiretap. You may have already have answered that.
18 Mr. Maheu. I think I did, yes.
19 Mr. Madigan. What did you say?
20. Mr. Maheu. My recollection is that I appeared before a
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
21 Grand Jury that was investigating Mr. Frank on another
22 matter.
23 Mr. Madigan. On another matter, but you had no recollection
24 of any investigation of that particular tap?
25 Mr. Maheu. No, I don't.
....
NW 50955 DocId: 32203816 Page 9
TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1 Mr. Madigan. Either an investigation of you or Frank or
2 Leone or anyone?
TOP SECRET
31
3 Mr. Maheu. No, I don't.
4 Mr. Madigan. No interviews by the FBI?
5 Mr. Maheu. It's conceivable, but I don't remember it.
6 Mr. Madigan. You don't remember it?
7 Mr. Maheu. No.
8 Mr. Madigan. Let's go off the record.
9 (Discussion off the record.)
tape 2a
10 Mr. Madigan. Did there come a time when you were asked
11 by the Central Intelligence Agency to be involved in a
WARD, & PAUL
12 project which would involve sending a woman by the name of
13 Florence Horn over to a foreign country?
14 Mr. Maheu. Yes, sir.
15 Mr. Madigan. And what were you asked to do with regard
16 to that?
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
17 Mr. Maheu. My recollection is that I was asked to find
18 a woman, preferably from Los Angeles, who would agree to go to
19 a foreign country and under some pretext try to meet the
20. leader of the country and hopefully change his basic philosophies
21 which at the time were thought to be detrimental to the United
22 States, and that they were very, as a result, very seriously
23 jeopardizing the national security of the government of the
24 United States.
25 Mr. Madigan. Did you find such a woman? I
NW 50955 DocId: 32203816 Page 10
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
32
1 Mr. Maheu. Yes, I did.
2 Mr. Madigan. And did the Agency sponsor her trip overseas,
3 that is the CIA?
4 Mr. Maheu. I placed her in touch with a representative
:-
5 of the CIA. He made certain commitments, Financial commitments
6 to her. At the completion of the assignment, she claimed that
7 she had additional funds coming to her which I paid out of my
8 zona pocket, so that I guess a more accurate way of saying it is
9 that the Agency and I sponsored her trip.
10 Mr. Madigan. Did she ever get to meet the foreign leader
11 whom we will call A?
WARD & PAUL
12 Mr. Maheu. I do not have any recollection.
13 Mr. Madigan. You don't know whether she did or she
14 didn't?
15 Mr. Maheu. I don't have any recollection.
16 Mr. Madigan. Do you know how long she was gone?
17 Mr. Maheu. My recollection is that she was gone for
18 several months:
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
19 Mr. Madigan. And this person is the woman I referred tox
20. earlier by the name of Florence Horn, is that right??
21 Mr. Maheu. That is correct.
22 Mr. Madigan. Now can you date that assignment as sometime
23 in 1956 or '57, does that sound about right, or do you have
24 any recollection of what year it was?
25 Mr. Maheu. I don't have any recollection. It was before
NW 50955 DocId: 32703816 Page 11
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
33
1 1960.
2 Mr. Madigan. It was sometime after you had begun in '54
3 with your Agency operation?
4 Mr. Maheu. That is correct.
5 Mr. Madigan. Or your sponsorship?
6 Mr. Maheu. That is correct.
7 Mr. Madigan. Subsequently, did this Leader "A" come to
8 the United States to your knowledge after this?
9 Mr. Maheu. I don't recall whether he came subsequently or
10 prior to.
11 Mr. Madigan. When the same leader did come to the United
WARD & PAUL
12 States, were you involved in any assignment for the CIA with
13 regard to his presence in the country?
14 Mr. Maheu. Yes, I was.
15 Mr. Madigan. And what was that assignment?
16 Mr. Maheu. I was told by the State Department and the
17 CIA that this leader would be in need of female companions and
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
18 that the government was very much concerned that the type of
19 women that would be secured for him might eventually be very
20. destructive to the national security of the United Statep
21 government unless said women had been cleared by local police
22 departments in several of the cities in which he was scheduled
23 to travel?
24 Mr. Madigan. Who was the Agency representative that gave
25 you this assignment? Did you go through Mr. O'Connell, or was
NW 50955 DocId:32203816 Page 12
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET
34
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
:
1 it someone different?
2 Mr. Maheu. This request emanated from, directly from the
3 State Department.
4 Mr. Madigan. Who in the State Department?
5 Mr. Maheu. Mr. Scott McCloud, who was then Director of
6 the Office of Security and Consular Affairs.
7 Mr. Madigan. Was it coordinated with the CIA, or was this
8 strictly between yourself and the State Department?
9 Mr. Maheu. My recollection is that the CIA was kept
10 apprised, however that the coordination was with the State
11 Department, in connection with the security that was being
WARD & PAUL
12 provided for this leader during his visit to the United States.
13 Mr. Madigan. Did you meet with the State Department or
14 CIA people or both in New York City when the leader arrived
15 there?
16 Mr. Maheu. My recollection is that I met with Security
17 Personnel of the State Department.
18 Mr. Madigan. What did you do in New York for this
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
assignment?
19 (Pause)
20. Mr. Maheu. I don't recall.
21 Mr. Madigan. And did you meet with the New York police
22
23 with regard to the assignment?
24 Mr. Maheu. I don't recall.
25 Mr. Madigan. Did you obtain or send over any females over
NW 50955 DocId: 32203816 Page 13
TOP SECRET
/

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
21
22
23
24
25
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
35
1 to the hotel that person. A was staying at??
2 Mr. Maheu. I don't recall.
15
3 Mr. Madigan. Do you recall telling me yesterday that you
4 did send girls over there?
5 Mr. Maheu. No, I don't.
6 Mr. Madigan. Did you travel from New York to any other
7 city with this leader?
8 Mr. Maheu. My recollection is that I did.
9 Mr. Madigan. What occurred when you arrived at the other
cities?
10
11 Mr. Maheu. My recollection is that I contacted the
12 security representatives of the State Department.
13 Mr. Madigan. And after you contacted the security
14 representatives, what were you supposed to do in these other
cities?
15 Mr. Maheu. My recollection is that I, through local
16
17 Police Department officials or law enforcement officials made
18 certain that the women who would gain access to the leader's
19 suite were such that they would not be a security risk insofar
20. as the national security of our government was concerned.
NW 50955 DocId: 32203816 Page 14
TOP SECRET
Mr. Madigan. Were these women that would not be a securit
risk be women who the Police Department had some relationship
with?
Mr. Maheu. I don't know what you mean by relationship,
Mr. Madigan.

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
36
1 Mr. Madigan. You indicated in our discussion yesterday
2 that the women that were allowed access, as you put it to this
3 Leader "A" were to be women that the police would have some
4 control over so that they would not be a possibility of a later
5 blackmail problem with the United States government, is that
6 not correct?
7 Mr. Maheu. That is my recollection, yes.
8 Mr. Madigan. Did you participate in sending these women
9 or providing these women over to the hotel where the leader
10 was staying?
11 Mr. Maheu. I don't recall.
12 Mr. Madigan. Do you recall telling me yesterday that you
13 did?
14 Mr. Maheu. No, I do not.
15 Mr. Madigan. Do you recall telling me yesterday when I
16 asked you whether someone had travelled from city to city, you
17 indicated that you thought maybe one did, but you weren't sure
18 about how many others.
19 Mr. Maheu. That is correct.
20. Mr. Madigan. How many cities did you visit during the
21 trip that this Leader "A" made?
22 Mr. Maheu. Several cities.
23 Mr. Madigan. Now were the women that were provided known
24 to you or represented to you as prostitutes in any of these
25 cities?
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

TOP SECRET
NW 50955 DocId:32203816 Page 15

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
37
1 Mr. Maheu. I don't recall.
2 Mr. Madigan. Do you recall telling me yesterday that they
3 were?
4 Mr. Maheu. Do you recall yesterday identifying the
5 leader?
6 Mr. Madigan. I do..
7 Let's go off the record.
8 (Discussion off the record.)
9 Mr. Madigan. According to your understanding, Mr. Maheu
10 of the project that you were involved in with the State
11 Department in providing the women to this foreign leader in the
12 various cities starting from New York and going through the
13 other cities he stayed at, do you believe the women that were
14 sent over to his hotel were prostitutes?
15 Mr. Maheu. That they may have been, yes.
16 Mr. Madigan. And you did particpate under instructions
17 of the government, to send these women over to his hotel or to
18 make them available to him at his hotel, not knowing what
19 happened after they got to the hotel?
20. Mr. Maheu. That is correct.
21 Mr. Madigan. And that occurred in New York and the other
22 cities that he stayed at while he was in the United States?
23 Mr.Maheu. That is correct.
24 Mr. Madigan. And as far as these women travelling with
25 you from city to city, your recollection is that one may haver--
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 50955
DocId: 32203816 Page 16
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET
38
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1 Mr. Maheu. No.
2 Mr. Madigan. But, you did not bring a crowd of six or
3 seven.
4 Mr. Maheu. I have no recollection that any woman trave
5 with me, may have travelled independently, but I have no
6 recollection of being on the same plane with any of these
travelled
7 people.
8 Mr. Madigan. You think may have traveled from city to
9 city, or four or five?
10 Mr. Maheu. One may have gone to one further city. That
11 is the best of my recollection.
WARD & PAUL
12 Mr. Madigan. And the others that were provided in each
13 city were sort of local, so that they could be controlled
14 more or less, by the local police?
15 Mr. Maheu. That's my recollection.
16 Mr. Madigan. Is that the theory of the project?
17 Mr. Maheu. That's my recollection.
18 Mr. Madigan. Now with regard to this same leader, did
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
19 you ever receive an assignment from the CIA to produce any
20. film with regard to him?
21 Mr. Maheu. Yes, I did.
22 Mr. Madigan. Do you remember when that assignment was
23 in terms of whether it was before or after this visit to the
24 United States?
25 Mr. Maheu. Subsequent to his visit to the United States
NW 50955 DocId: 32203816 Page 17
TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
39
1 he made a trip to Russia. Our inputs were to the effect that
2 he brought back from Russia with him an attractive, Russian
3 agent, and that his philosophies relative to the United States
4 began to change appreciably and that the security of the United
5 States was in great jeopardy as a result of whatever influence
6 this female agent was able to have upon him.
7 Mr. Madigan. As a result of that, what assignment did you
8 receive, if any, from the CIA?
9 Mr. Maheu. As a result, I was asked if well, as a
10 result I was provided with pictures reflecting the quarters
11 allegedly reflected the quarters to which she was assigned
12 during his trip to Russia, photographs of the female agent
13 and I was asked if I could find some contacts in Los Angeles
14 who could produce a set resembling the headquarters reflected
15 ron the pictures, a woman who looked like the female agent, a
16 male who looked like the leader, and taker some pictures.
17 subsequently showing them together within the confines of the
18 alleged headquarters.
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
19 Mr. Madigan. Did you recruit anybody to be in this
20. film?
21 Mr. Maheu. Yes, I did.
22 Mr. Madigan. Who was that?
23 Mr.Maheu. I recruited a man who was working for me in
24 Tucson, Arizona by the name of Charles Kays, a female agent
25 who was known to - I mean a female who was known to the law
NW 50955 DocId:32203816 Page 18
TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
1 Fenforcement authorities in Los Angeles, and who resembled the
40
2 Russian female agent.
3 Mr. Madigan. Did you ever advertise in the newspaper for
4 that film?
5 Mr. Maheu. I have no recollection. I can't believe that
6 where you would find the proper subjects, I don't believe so
7 no.
8 Mr. Madigan. Did the CIA provide the set for that,
9 did you do the backdrop and all that business making it looks
10 like it was in Moscow?
11 Mr. Maheu. The CIA provided me with photographs, and I
12 secured the services of a person in Los Angeles who was in the
13 industry on behalf of the CIA,
14 Mr. Madigan. Was that Bautzer?
15 Mr. Maheu. No, sir.
16 Mr. Madigan. Who was that?
17 Mr. Maheu. 'First I discussed the matter with Howard
18 Hughes and he recommended that I contact Mr. Larry Crosby, which
19 I did.
20. Mr. Madigan. Did Hughes have to approve your being
21 involved in this?
22 Mr. Maheu. I am not sure he had to approve. I was just
23 seeking his advice.
24 Mr. Madigan. You were more or less just telling him about
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
25 it?
NW 50955 DocId:32203816 Page 19
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET
41
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1 Mr. Maheu. I beg your pardon?
3 2 Mr. Madigan. You were just telling him about it?
Mr. Maheu. No, Mr. Hughes had been in the industry, he
4 had been in movie studios, I thought he could be helpful to
5 this contract.
6 Mr. Madigan. Did you deal with O'Connell with regard to
7 this contract or with somebody else?
8 Mr. Maheu. My recollection is that I dealt with Mr.
9 O'Connell and Colonel Edwards.
10 Mr. Madigan. Colonel Edwards?
11 Who was this person, the female who was known
WARD & PAUL
12 to
13 Mr. Maheu... I really don't remember. The one and only
14 time I have seen her in my life.
15 Mr. Madigan... could this film have been described as a
16 pornographic film, or was it something less than that?
17 Mr. Maheu. By today's technology, I would say definitely
18 no.
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
19 Mr. Madigan. You say this woman was known to the law
20 enforcement authorities: Was she suspected by yourself to be
21 La prostitute?
22 Mr. Maheu. Not at all
23 Mr.. Madigan. Not at all?
24 Mr. Maheu. Not at all.
25 Mr. Madigan. She was just an actress of some kind?
NW 50955 DocId: 32203816 Page 20
TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
TOP SECRET
1 Mr. Maheu. I don't recall, but my recollection is sho
42
2 was highly respected by the law enforcement authorities.
3 Whether she was an informant for them or what the relationship
4 was, I don't know.
5 Mr. Madigan. So you produced one film? One film
6 7 cannister as a result of this, movie film?
Mr. Maheu. Very short.
8 Mr. Madigan. Did you make any still photographs or
9 anything like that?
10 Mr. Maheu. No, I did not.
11 Mr. Madigan. And then you turned the film over to the
12 CIA?
13 Mr. Maheu. That is correct.
14 Mr. Madigan. And thereafter do you know what happened
15 to it?
16 Mr. Maheu. No, I do not.
17 Mr. Madigan. Were you told what was going to be done
18 with it?
19 Mr. Maheu. I was told that the stills would be distributed
20 in the country of the leader in an attempt to embarrass him
21 and hopefully as a