157-10004-10270
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10270

RECORDS SERIES :
MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
ΤΟ :

TITLE :
ROBERT MAHEU

DATE: 00/00/00
PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS:
MAHEU, ROBERT
OFFICE OF SECURITY
CIA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS: 1A, 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/01/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Date: 09/02/94
Page: 1

NW 50955 DocId: 32202159 Page 1

---

SECRET
(TD)

SUBJECT: Robert Maheu Foreign Head of State

1. In connection with the official State visit of
the
a foreign Head of State in 1959
Office of Security arity was requested to render special support
during the Los Angeles zad New York phases of the tour.
According to personnel,
the foreign official was especially desirous of
fonale companionshis during his Los Angeles visit and it
was requested that appropriate arrangezents be made tarough
a controlled source of the Office in order to assurema
Satisfied visit.

2. On 3 April 1959 Mr. Robort Maheu a cleared Office
of Security contact, was asked to arrange a party for the foreign
official at Los Angeles, California. This was done by
Mr. Nabeul through ir. Gregson Bautzer. Mr. Dautzer is a
proninent hos Angeles азголям аnd Hollywood žigure pre
viously granted a covert security approval for use by FB
Division. By pre-arrangement, during the course of this party
the foreign officialvas Introduced to
appare
tino screen and stage actress.. For the duration of the foreign
official's stay in Los Angeles, 3 through 7 April 1959,
and the actress became intiaate &riends. It was indicated
by a CIA employee who was integrated into tho State party,shat
the foreign official desired to continue his friendship vich
the actress and that no ho wished wished to to meet meet with her during his
stay in New York City frou 14 through 18 April 1959.

3. On 13 April 1959 arrangements were made to rent the
home of
an Office of Security source,
at Long Beach, Long Island, for the period 14 through 13
April 1959. Tac nous, was to be used as a confidencial aeegiaz
place for the actress and the foreign-official. At the same ti
the actress was registered at the Hotol Barclay, Ill cast
13th Street, New York City, under an assumed name.

The publicity touching on the
relationship and become more pointed since some publicity
mention had been been made of the Jewish b background of the actress.
On 14 April 1959 a CIA employee and the actress were transport.ed
to tac
home on Long Island which was taken over is
APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
(1)(A)
CIA HISTORICAL-REVIEW PROGRAM (ハ(B)
DOCIO:220244ASSANITIZED
NW 50955 DocId
01469 PROPERTY OF
THE WHITE HOUSE OFFICE

---

SECRET
:
the meeting place for the foreign a official and the actress. Later
the same day, by pre-arrangement, stro Department of State
Security Agents, a New York City police lieutenant and
hired chauffeur arrived with the foreign official. The actress
remained at the site through 18 April 1959, and the foreign official
and his party arty visited each evening and remained for about
four to five hours

4. During the stay at the Long Beach site, the actress
discussed the publicity in the case at some length with the
Security representatives. She speculated about the possible
Sources of certain personal information that she felt had
boen leaked to the presso Additionally she spoke of ber
deep feeling for the foreign official & commented on on how how Gregson
Bautzer initially sought her out to serve as a party companion
for the foreign official. At the tine she said she was unclear
as to just what part 5. Bautzer wanted her to play. In
attempting to clarify his case Mr. Bautzer said
employed by the CIA. We want you to go to bed with为运
The actress said she rejected the proposal but finally wont
to the party. She became quite taken with the foreign official and
found him to be most charming.

-5. All personal contacts by Security representatives
in this case were under alias and implied State Department
vaffiliatica There is no record or indication in any of the
files in this case that involves Robert Maheu by name of.
reference. It is believed that Mr. Mahou was never intro-
duced to the actress and as far as can be determinei
Bautzer fronted" for all arrangements. Office of Security
investigation conducted variously frea 25 May through
17 September 1959 of the actress reflected no substantive
derogatory information regarding hero

01470

NW 50955 DocId:32202159 Page 3
SECRET
?
PROPERTY OF
THE WHITE HOUSE
