157-10014-10242
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 7/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10014-10242
RECORD SERIES: MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 07-M-147

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 00/00/1975
PAGES: 690
SUBJECTS: ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
ORGANIZED CRIME
CIA
ASSASSINATION, KENNEDY, JOHN
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: Declassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; IC; 3
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/31/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: CCBOX 441

v9.1
NW 50955 DocId: 32423630 Page 1
1
---

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10014-10242
RECORDS SERIES: MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 07-M-147

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE
:
DATE: 00/00/75
PAGES: 690
SUBJECTS: ORGANIZED CRIME
Date : 08/09/95
Page : 1

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
CIA
ASSASSINATION, KENNEDY, JOHN
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: POSTPONED IN FULL
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/21/99
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: CCBOX 441
[R]
ITEM IS RESTRICTED
NW 50955 DocId: 32423630 Page 2
---

Ny Daily
SUNDAY NIS, A1 075
SECRETS OF THE CIA!!!

American Mata Hari Who Duped Castro

Marie Lorenz: spied on Fidel.
-
:
:
Its clandestine operations now ondergoing e sometimes painful official
estuting, the Central Intelligence Age y rainte.ns, as always, a tight lip. Lat.
from interviews with the egents who i redout te do the CIA's clock-and-dagger
work. News reporter Post Meskil tells here for the first time of the intrigue
thut surfaced in the Cuban miscile e. is, controllation that pushed the US
to the brink of war with the Su iet Union. First of a scries.
!
DY PAUL MICKIL
છે
:
A I EAUTIFUL German-American copiongee agents, Caribbean conspira-
tors, aid Cuban freedom fighters were
girl scored an intelligence coup fo
interviewed for this series, on CIA
thể CLA by stealing sceret paperderations in the Caribbean and the
chored vth Fidel Castro
!
1
merican of their clandestine ac-
takice are sold here for the first time,
we are being investigated by the
• A fantastic scheme to scize a
Soviet ship and use it to chtain the
release of the captured American spy
ship Pueblo.
• Secret deals with American mob
sters who had lost their multiniillion-
dollar Cüben gambling casinos....
• Armed raids on Cuba and many
shipments of guerrilla fighters, weap-
ons, explosives and other wer materi
als to the island before and after the
Day of Pigs ficsco.
Marie Lerema played a temall but
Caribbean conspiracies.
er the prere, the tollice on Intelli-important role in the labyrinth of
New were mens showing th ٢٠
sclested; aer Soviet missile installations
En Caba.
peace and Vice President Rockefeller's
Commission on CIA Activities.
red Marie Dosen to cred
whbors quictly in New York, was th
Ec of the Caribbean cold war,
She was one of the most clamorous
members of a spring recrc.ued for.
the Central Indigence Arc
Frank isomni, a cactime triple agent
whe later became became known to the ameris
can public as Watergate burgler Frack
Sturgis.
According to sources, the CIA was,
dar or another, involved in:
Chcesassinate foreign heads
mcluding, Castro of Cuba,
Papa Doc Muvalier or Haiti and Pafael
Trojilo of Me Dominican Repai
of state,
Singa Certroite attempt to
invade Papama and sabotage the Pana-
rma Canal.
:
• The explosion of a munitions ship
Ms. Lorenz, Sturgis, other formet it Havana harbor.
:
Her Culan adventures begen on
balmy event, in Tehreer cary 1950, when.
a lanch C Caben scrolution-
palied clemmede the gleaming
ary flag palic
-white luxury Her Lelin, anchored in
Havana harber on the next-to-last stop
ofa Caribbean
م
In the launch were 20 or so heavily
arned Cubans, all wearing beards and
rumpled live-green fatigues. The
Iner's, accommodation lauder was
(Continard en reje 35).
Box 441
NW 50955 DocId: 32423630
Page 3
---

> **
,
(Continuad from 2)
lowered and the bisbal (bearded
... dalhard like pirates, kro
nades d dangling from their belts and
thachira xuns uns swinging from their
shoulders
and ran for cover with their dinner-
women in evening themed
Jacketed husbandal Lelieving the ship
was twing raided by andit Lut otler,
Arwerwan' tearists recognized the leader
of the sinister-looking laral as Fidel
Castro, the new pedime pdime minister of Cuha,
Hari Who Duped Custo
the lull, chari afic dictator, luther
airborne illusions were shattered doon
after the plane Linded.
"I was ved Idealistic she
said. "I was going on an adventure and
to
to my first Jo I 1 was going to help
the new goverit punt. Instead, I betame
Castro's play thi
"I was dris in from the airport to
the Havana Ilton, where Fidel had
taken over the 4th floor. For the next
four months, hardly ever got qt of
the Hilton. When I did get out, was,
Pind they crowded around him for: auto-muler guard. I'd wanted to go down to
coffee shop, two burundus
graphi.
"I'm a friend," "The shoute! obviously
enyrying the commotion lepiad caused.
"I like Americans."
The Berlin's shopper, former Gerbian
Nivy Capt. Heinrich Lorenz, lagited
the barindos to stay for cocktail and
dianer, and he introduced Qustro this
vifarious 18-year-old ear-old daughter, Mori
"My father spoke Spanish and he
it along well with Castro," Marie Jold
this reporter. "lle took Castro and his
nen on a tour of the ship, then alked
them to please leave their guns of dide
11:3 dining room before they sat hown
fof dinner.
છ
"Castro said they didn't feel safe
vithout guns, so my father all wed
Gem to keep their pistols, but he iande
Livem legve the machine guns, automat
ic' rifles and grenades in the smoking
Caste sat at the captain's table,
between Lorenz and Marie. During the
meal, he smiled frequently at Marie,
nad she was as impressed as any nor-
nal techage girl would be by compli
ments from, the flamboyant hero of the
Caban revolution.'
She spoke German and English,
which she had learned from her Ameri-
can mother. Castro said he needed a
sacretary who could write lettera in
these languages. Before the moal was
over, he offered the job to Marie.
1
Took Offer As Joke
"He asked me to stay in Havana
and work for him," she said. "My fa
ther and I both laughed. My father
said I was going back to Germany to
finish my education."
promised to write to her, 80
Castro pro
the pool or coffee
would go with me."
'I Wat His Priloner
Asled to refine her relatio hip
with Castro dujing this period. Maria
said: "I want prisoner. I was Arap-
ped."
"Were youlover in love with
Fidel?"
"No; never. How can you be in love
when you're afraid, when you're treated
like a piece of furniture, when pou're,
sleeping with a live hazooka, unde the
hed, when you're living in a
guns on every table and cigar butik all
over the floor?"
she conting
room
with
"My way of thinking was gwas Gerijan,"
"Everything, in my life
had been orderly, very neat, and
estcial-
ly a prime minister, could be so disor-
canized. I thought he would have
clean never really any
I
several offices, with desks, chairs and
telephones. All he had, at this foint,
was B suite of rooms at the ton,
where he lived and worked. I was kept
in one of the rooms. The door to the
hall
locked from the outside.
Barbudos anul visitors were in thespext
rooln, but the door between the toms
was kept locked.
"All I could do was read loks,
study Spanish, walk back and forth,
hsten to the radio or go on the balcony
and look out over Havana. I was
miserable. My father tried to find out
what had happened to me. He contact-
ed the American Embassy in Havana
Marie was born un American citizen)
but nothing; happened.
"The only clothes I had were what I
brought with me from New York. I
couldn't go out to buy anything. Fidel
had me measured for a uniform so 1
would look like a member of the 26th
of July Movement. An olive-green uni-
form with a lieutenant's star.
she gave him two addresses-her par-
ents home in Bremen, Germany, and
her brother's apartment in New York,
where she planned to stay when the
Caribbean cruise ended. She never ex-of
pected to see or hear from Fidel again.
About two weeks later, two Cuban
"That way, when I was allowed out
officers called on Marie in New York. I under guard, he thought people would
They carried a message from Castro,
saying he was in desperate need of an
English-German translator. lie had sent
Cubana Airlines plane to bring her
back to Havana.
"I made a big mistake," Marle said.,
"I got on that plane."
During the flight to Havana, she
tried to imagine her life in Castroland.
She thought she wohlt have a deck in
the premier's seculatial pool and a
staall apartment of her own. She may
even have dreamed of a romance with

Source of Tarrabscci
Sturgis says SAL Garcia
momo
think I was of his officers. But
almost every Havana housewife heard
rumors that Castro was keeping a for-
eigner, an American girl, at the fiilton.
I was becoming a problem to him.
"One day two barbudos came to the
rooid while Fidel was out. They said
they were there to help me. They took
me on a 20-njinete Lane ride to the
whowed me the
beautiful black and bouch there and
then drove me hy jeep to this huge
prison complex. They showed me a cell
NW 50955 DocId:32423630 Page .4..
---

(Continued from smire 2)
lowered and the bisbal (bearded
... dalhard like pirates, kro
nades d dangling from their belts and
thachira xuns uns swinging from their
shoulders
and ran for cover with their dinner-
women in evening themed
Jacketed husbandal Lelieving the ship
was twing raided by andit Lut otler,
Arwerwan' tearists recognized the leader
of the sinister-looking laral as Fidel
Castro, the new pedime pdime minister of Cuha,
the lull, chari afic dictator, luther
airborne illusions were shattered doon
after the plane Linded.
"I was ved Idealistic she
said. "I was going on an adventure and
to
to my first Jo I 1 was going to help
the new goverit punt. Instead, I betame
Castro's play thi
"I was dris in from the airport to
the Havana Ilton, where Fidel had
taken over the 4th floor. For the next
four months, hardly ever got qt of
the Hilton. When I did get out, was,
Pind they crowded around him for: auto-muler guard. I'd wanted to go down to
coffee shop, two burundus
graphi.
"I'm a friend," "The shoute! obviously
enyrying the commotion lepiad caused.
"I like Americans."
The Berlin's shopper, former Gerbian
Nivy Capt. Heinrich Lorenz, lagited
the barindos to stay for cocktail and
dianer, and he introduced Qustro this
vifarious 18-year-old ear-old daughter, Mori
"My father spoke Spanish and he
it along well with Castro," Marie Jold
this reporter. "lle took Castro and his
nen on a tour of the ship, then alked
them to please leave their guns of dide
11:3 dining room before they sat hown
fof dinner.
છ
"Castro said they didn't feel safe
vithout guns, so my father all wed
Gem to keep their pistols, but he iande
Livem legve the machine guns, automat
ic' rifles and grenades in the smoking
Caste sat at the captain's table,
between Lorenz and Marie. During the
meal, he smiled frequently at Marie,
nad she was as impressed as any nor-
nal techage girl would be by compli
ments from, the flamboyant hero of the
Caban revolution.'
She spoke German and English,
which she had learned from her Ameri-
can mother. Castro said he needed a
sacretary who could write lettera in
these languages. Before the moal was
over, he offered the job to Marie.
1
Took Offer As Joke
"He asked me to stay in Havana
and work for him," she said. "My fa
ther and I both laughed. My father
said I was going back to Germany to
finish my education."
promised to write to her, 80
Castro pro
the lull, chari afic dictator, luther
Marie was born un American citizen)
but nothing; happened.
"The only clothes I had were what I
brought with me from New York. I
couldn't go out to buy anything. Fidel
had me measured for a uniform so 1
would look like a member of the 26th
of July Movement. An olive-green uni-
form with a lieutenant's star.
"That way, when I was allowed out
I under guard, he thought people would
say, "I'm of his officers. But
almost every Havana housewife heard
rumors that Castro was keeping a for-
eigner, an American girl, at the fiilton.
I was becoming a problem to him.
"One day two barbudos came to the
rooid while Fidel was out. They said
they were there to help me. They took
me on a 20-njinete Lane ride to the
whowed me the
beautiful black and bouch there and
then drove me hy jeep to this huge
prison complex. They showed me a cell
Discovery of missile
sitęs in Cuba provokod
a cold-war showdown
bolwaan tian Prezident
Jolin F. Kennedy and
thhon Soviat Premier
Nikita Khrushcliov, a
confrontation that had
the world holding
iis breath.

A chance meeting in Havana harbor aboard a cruise ship captained by her
fathor brought Marie Lorenz and Fidel Castro logether. It began a
liaison destined to have international repercussions.
where dictator Fulgencio Batista had
imprisoned Fidel and Raol (Fidel's
brother) years before. I went into the
rell to look at a bronze plaque on the
wall. They shut the door and locked me
in the coll. Then they went away.
She Wasn't Pampered
"I spent a
week there, eating the
same food as the other prisoners
blacks beans, rice, stale bread and cof-
fee. As far as I know, I was the only
woman there.
"Every morning we would hear the
firing squads. As soon as it got light,
the birds would start singing. Then the
guns would go off. Then marching and
quiet. Then breakfast and cell checks.
The guards would check to see if you'd
hanged yourself during the night or if
you'd done something; wrong in there
where there was hardly room to turn
around. It was hourible.
"After seven days, I was taken out
and flown back to Havana."
Mevin was never told why she was
jailed. She now believes Castro had her
locked up to make sure she didn't es-

NW 50955 DocId:32423630 Page .4..
---

Date: 08/09/95
Page: 2

cape while he was out of the count v
visiting the United States and South
Anterica.
One night she was with Castro, and
his bodyguards 111 the lobby of the
Riviera Hotel when a handsome, wav-
haared man aproached her. He wore
the obve-green rehel uniform and the
msignia of a captain m the Cuban Bir
force.
While Castro
was conferring with
his sides on the other side of the
lobby, the captain mingled with the
barbudos around Marie and whispered
to her in English: "I know about you."
"Can you help me?" she responded.
"I'an you get me out of here?"
"Yes. I'm with the American
Embassy. I'll get you out."
This was her introduction to Com-
mandante Frank Fiorini (later known
as Frank Sturgis), Castro confidant
and hired agent for the U.S. Central
Intelligence Agency.
Agrees to Spy on Fidel
For the next few weeks Frank kept
in contact with her in person and
through Castro officers who were
working for him. Marie agreed to spy
on Castro. She filched secret documenta
and reported Castro's conversations
with important visitors overheard
through the hotel, walls. Ily now, she
could read and speak Spanish fairly
well.
Thee kuite was full of guns and
papers," she said. "Fidel had papers
atrewn all over the tables, the floor,
the bed, the dresser. He had one filing
cabinet that was never locked. It was
full of money, papers, documents,
maps. I took papers out and slipped
them to Frank. Fidel never missed
them.
"Frank said, 'Get all the data you
can, and I did. I was a regular Mata
Hari."
Then Marie became sick, and Frank
arranged her escape. Two Cuban offi-
cers took her out of the hotel while
Castro was away and put her on a
Cubana Airlines flight to New York.
i
About that time, Frank also set up
the escapes of two top Cuban air force
officers, a project that forced him to
leave Cuba. He moved his luse of
operations to Miami, bat he kept in
touch with his agents on the island and
his CIA contacta in Havana and Wash-

When she recovered from her ill-
ness, Marie jo ned him in Florida and
volunteered for a mission that meant
certain death if show were caught.
Early in 1960, Castro went t
---

SECRETS OF THE CIA!!!
American Mata Hari Who Duped Castro
Nw bouly SUNDAY NIS, A1075
50955 DocId: 32423630 Page 3
---

SUNDAY NEWS, JUNE 185 1976
:
CIA Sent Bedmate
3
To Kill Castro in '60
By PAUL MESKIL
WY
The Central Intelligence Agency sent a shapely Mata Hari to Cuba in
1960 to kill her former lover, Fidel Castro.
Its
Details of this case were uncovered by The News and a Senate Intelligenes
a
Committee investigator who
learned that a mystery
woman had been involved
in
assassination plot
against the Cuban dictator.
It
was the first of several
CLA-sponsored attempts to exe-
cate Castro.
The mystery woman has now
been identified by the committee
and The News as Marie Lorenz,
an attractive German-American
brunette who shared Castro's
Havana hotel suite for soveral
months in 1959. When a commit-
tee investigator confronted her
with evidence linking her to the
assassination plot, she admitted
that she had been recruited for
the attempted hit.
Exclusive Account
Then, last week, she gave this
reporter an exclusive account of
mission SO secret that she
never mentioned it to anyone for
ith yearg.
Ms. Lorenz, who now lives in
New York, is the daughter of
the late German Navy Capt.
Heinrich Lorenz and his Ameri
can wife. After World War 11,
Lorenz became skipper of the
luxury liner Berlin. He took
Marie along on Caribbean
cruise in Folmary
month aft۰۰
the Cuban
nt.
Isро
1959,
a
145PO
a
the Berlin in
Havana harbor and dined with
the captain and his vivacious
teenage daughter. He later per-
suaded Maric to return to Hava-
na to work as his personal inter-
preter. When she arrived she
was installed in Castro's 24th-
floor suite at the Havana Hilton.
She soon realized she was
virtual prisoner.
Quizzed by FBI
a
Frank Fiorini, an American
who had become a Cuban Revo-
Lutionary Army officer and a
CIA agent, contacted her and
persuaded her to photograph
Castro's secret papers. He later
helped her escape.
She left Havana in January
NW 50955 DocId; 32423630 Page, 5.
The Memo That Started It
"f far left"
On Dec 11, 1959 Col. J. C. King, head of the EA
Western Hemisphere Division, wrote a memorandum to
Director Allen Dulles, according to a Semate commit....
report Noting cer the "far left" regiime
11:
Cuba, com
corage other Latin American countrics against US intercsts
he recommended tha
consideration in piven to the elimination of Fidel Castra
Fone of the co Sose to Fidel, such as as his brother Kano
compamon, Che Guevara, have the same mesmeri appeal to
the passes. Man informe intorned people believe that te dapper
ance of Fidel would greatly accelerate a fall of the prisom
government
Dulles ant Deputy Director Director of P Plams Ricans B
approved the recommendation, and the CLA inched a pon
assassination campaign a gainst Castro that lasted at Dast
five years. This is the excinsive story of the first try.
---

SUNDAY NEWS, JUNE 18,
CIA Sent a Bedmate
TO
Kill Castro in '60
(Conanied om page 3)
in
Fronini
1103
York
was the York
Hospita for
1. illness
the 111
incuba and told
V:1
Her
i-
the:
and the 11
11
F11
In:
1102
111
111
11
several more
Yat
Were disci
on the 11
1
11
"
she to
he-171
-
said the C
"111
-2-
gave
her two capsules
full of poison powder. She was
to sprinkle the powder in
Castro's coffee.
"I guess the company (CIA)
supplied them. Frank said it was
a company operation."
form that Castro had given her,
Wha
work.
site Cabar
.
:
Designating her a lieutenant in
the Revolationary Army, Ms
161
and the FBI.
Missions she
"asked about my atti-
1: de towar Castro
:
sa-id:
in atid
"
"
1.
Lii
"
111
to and
-
4213.1 Why do-n't you kill
"
1311 don't know how,
"
11
in and
""
:
1
"
(he and Frank Flach.

There is in the fast cleans
-aid there was
1. meetings, at which
"
A few
visited the suite a
previously and stolen his secrets.
And he certainly didn't suspect
she had come back to kill him.
11e
"
"
and
'Not the rest it comes, he
fell asleep on the bed, in his
fatigues and with a cigar in his
mouth. I had no confidence left,
1
but I knew this was the chance
to do it.
"I went into the bathroom and
opened the jar of cold cream. I
stuck my finger in it and the
whole thing came out like yuck.
couldn't find the capsules.
They had melted.
1710
-6137
4.
---
