-2-

H: Would you make that please -- Do you mind my
interrupting?

B: Sure -- go ahead.

H: Make that Soviet Intelligence Branch.

B: -- and he was in charge of the Soviet Intelligence
Branch of the Agency --

H: --which is a lesser position than the other reads
like.

B: All right. He went to Berlin in the Fall of 1952
He came
where he was Station Chief until 1959.
back to Washington in the Fall of 1959 where he stayed until
June of 1963, except for possible short periods of temporary
duty --

H: -- except for several periods of temporary duty.

B: -- except for several periods of temporary duty
abroad. He went to Rome in June 1963 where he
He came back to the Agency
was Station Chief until 1966.
in Washington in 1966 and he retired from the Agency in 1967.
on December 31. Now, Mr. Harvey, does that summarize basically
part of your background, at least that we discussed?

H: That is correct. I would like to add one thing, if I
may. During both the Berlin and Rome periods and for a considerable
period of time in Washington after I returned from Berlin I
was on the roles of the Foreign Service of State, which raises
a little question of propriety. But I want you to know that
in the handling of this.

B: All right. I first asked you with regard to any
knowledge of any assassination plans or plots within
the Agency concerning Patrice Lumumba and you might indicate
what your response was to that, Mr. Harvey.

H: I have no personal knowledge of any such plan or
operation within or on the part of the Agency.

B: I also asked you apart from the question of Fidel
Castro whether or not you had any knowledge of
any assassination plans or plots in the Agency that involved
any other foreign leader.
