2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10002-10105
RECORDS SERIES :
TRANSCRIPT
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM :
ΤΟ :
TITLE :
TESTIMONY OF WILLIAM HARVEY
DATE: 06/25/75
PAGES : 62
SUBJECTS :
ZRRIFLE
CASTRO
ROSELLI, JOHNNY
OPERATION MONGOOSE
BISSELL, RICHARD
ASSASSINATION
KENNEDY, JOHN F.
THE PRESIDENT
QJWIN
MAFIA
SILVER, ARNOLD
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/30/93
OPENING CRITERIA :
Box 245
Folder 13
COMMENTS:
[R]
ITEM IS RESTRICTED
Date: 09/30/93
Page: 1

TOP SECRET
6
1
counterespionage for a brief period against the Japanese and
2
the Italians and the Russians in '41. Then during most of the
3
War, against the Germans, and then beginning in early '45 until
4
the middle of '47 against the Soviet service again.
5
Mr. Schwarz. And then in 1947, did you join the CIA as
6
head of the Soviet Intelligence Branch?
7
Mr. Harvey. That is correct.
8
Mr. Schwarz.
Is that also counterespionage?
9
Mr. Harvey.
Yes, it was.
10
Mr. Schwarz. And then between 1947 and 1952, you worked
11
on Soviet counterespionage and certain special operations in
12
the Department for Plans, is that right?
13
Mr. Harvey. Well, that is correct. It was a particular
14
command and staff responsibility on communications intelligence
15
and for a period of, I would think probably eight to ten
16 months, I headed a planning staff, along with that.
17
Mr. Schwarz. In 1952, did you go to Berlin as chief of
18
Station for the CIA?
19
Mr. Harvey. I did.
20
Mr. Schwarz.
And were you there until 1959?
21
Mr. Harvey.
Until the end of 1959.
22
Mr. Schwarz.
I understand, Mr. Harvey, that you had some
23
rather substantial accomplishments there, such as the Berlin
24 Tunnel
25
Could you just very succinctly describe the Berlin Tunnel

TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET
7
1
operation and then move on?
2
Mr. Harvey. Well, very briefly, that is an operation that
3
and I conceived some time before I went to
4 Berlin
Senator Tower. You and who?
5
6
Mr. Harvey. Frank Rollett, who for many years was one of
7
the, if not the most, knowledgeable senior officer in the
8 cryptologic group.
9
And one of the reasons I went to Berlin was to attempt to
10 mount this operation.
11
In substance, what it amounted to was setting up a fairly
12 complex cover within a cover installation in West Berlin and
13 driving a tunnel approximately 500 meters, well underground
14 across the sector boundary, wand Wandtapping into three main
15 telephone, telegraph and teleprinter cables.
16
I think we had a total of around 900 circuits of these
S
17 which were, among other things, the main circuit between the
18 command headquarters of the Soviet Group in Bunsdorf, and the
19% outlying commands in Germany and the headquarters in Moscow
20
We also tapped into a number of Soviet Embassy circuits in
21. Unter den Frund and Unter den Linden in East Berlin, including
22 a number of intelligence circuits which unfortunately were not
23 really readable.
24
Senator Tower. Were not what?
25
Mr. Harvey. Were not readable.

TOP SECRET
8
1
Mr. Schwarz. I have been told, Mr. Harvey
is this not
2
correct
that you not only conceived the program but helped
3
to dig the tunnel?
4
Mr. Harvey. I did.
5
Mr. Schwarz. In 1959, did you become Chief of the Foreign
6
Intelligence Staff Division D?
7
Mr. Harvey.
That is correct.
8
Mr. Schwarz. Now is Division D a division of the CIA which
9
is responsible for communications intelligence?
10
Mr. Harvey. That is also correct.
11
Mr. Schwarz.
But part
12
Mr. Harvey. But I would like to clarify it, if I may,
13 Mr. Schwarz. It was the division of the clandestine services,
14 which was the focal point and was responsible for primarily two
15 things: the procurement of communications intelligence through
16 operational and clandestine sources and the control and utiliza
177 tion of the product of communications intelligence, as it
18 affected the clandestine services
19
We had nothing to do beyond that with the general sort of
20 research and analysis use which was handled in a separate
21 COMINT shop in the what I believe was the DDI, Deputy Director
22 Intelligence.
23
Mr. Schwarz. Did Staff D include within its responsibili-
24 ties the surreptitious obtaining of code information?
:
25
Mr. Harvey. Yes, in two ways:
TOP SECRET
complete control and
TOP SECRET
{
9
1
coordination of any such efforts, approval and assessment of the
2
security risk, and also in the direct procurement through
3
operational means abroad, but not in this country.
4
Mr. Schwarz. And by operational, you mean entering into
5 buildings?
6
Mr. Harvey. Surreptitious entry, intercepting couriers
7 monitoring of communications, monitoring of scatterback from
8 microwave, that type of thing. Clandestine monitoring would
9 be covered as well.
10
Mr. Schwarz. Now, did a man call Justin O'Donnell work
11 for you in Staff D?
12
Mr. Harvey. Yes, he did.
He Plads in Fall
ハ1907.
13
Mr. Schwarz. At some point, did M. O'Donnell recount to
14 you a conversation concerning Patrice Lumumba?
15
Mr. Harvey. Yes.
16
Mr. Schwarz. Would you state what he said to you?
17
Mr. Harvey. Briefly, Mr. Don All came to me and said
18
that he had been approached by Richard Bissell, who was then
19
Deputy Director for Plans, to undertake an operation in the
20
Congo, one of the objectives of which was the elimination of
21
Patrice Lumumba.
He also told me that he had declined to
7
23
22 undertake this assignment.
Mr. Schwarz. Did Mr Bissell subsequently have a conversa-
24
tion with you in which he also recounted the fact that he had
25 requested Mroo Donnell to undertake such an operation?
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET
13
1
of assassination is obviously a two-pronged subject, ours and
2 theirs. We spent countless hours over the years trying to
3
4
determine the parameters of how far the Soviet service was
willing to go. This was partly a question of assessment,...
5 this was partly a question, to put it just as bluntly,
6
of self-protection.
7
I will try to summarize what I think are fair conclusions.
8
In the field of political assassination, although I cannot
9 document this by evidence, I have no question but what the
10 Soviet service has, does, and will continue to use the tool of
11 assassination to accomplish political gains inside and outside
12 of the USSR. In the intelligence field, I think you have to
13 make a distinction, the distinction roughly and I'm over-
simplifying this slightly but a distinction into perhaps
14
15
three classes.
16
One, their own ethnics or nationals. Secondly, indigenous
17 agents of third countries. And thirdly, the recognized official
18 staff officers of other intelligence services.
19
During the seven years that I spent in Berlin, which was
20
the longest continuous period that I was exposed in depth to
21
Soviet Executive Action, we lost a great many Russians, a great
22 many Germans, a certain number of Czechs, Poles and other
nationalities.
23
24
25
Mr. Schwarz. When you say you lost Russians, you mean
Russians who were working with the United States?
TOP SECRET
TOP SECRET-
19
1
Mr. Schwarz. Anyway, it exists, as a combination.
2
Mr. Harvey. In other words, if you want to put it in just
3
these blunt terms, it would have been a lot easier for the KGB
4
to assassinate me in West Berlin than it would have been for
5
me to assassinate my opposite number in East Berlin, in the
6
Soviet Embassy across the border.
7
Mr. Schwarz. In describing the Soviets, you distinguish
8
between political assassination, direct agents of the United
9
States, and finally the emigres and foreign nationals.
10
Mr. Harvey. And also -- well, not foreign nationals, but
11 emigres and Soviet nationals.
12
Mr. Schwarz. That's what I meant. Soviet nationals.
13
Mr. Harvey. The most merciless, the field where they are
14
the most merciless are their own defected agents, of course.
15
Mr. Schwarz. Now, to your knowledge, has the United States
16
ever assassinated a defected agent or a third country?
17
Mr. Harvey. You mean an American agent who has defected
18
or doubled?
19
Mr. Schwarz. Yes.
20
Mr. Harvey.
To my personal knowledge, no.
21
Mr. Schwarz. What about persons who are third country
22
enemies of the United States?
23
Mr. Harvey. No.
24
Mr. Schwarz. You don't know any instance of the United
25 States assassinating any person who is in the non-political
TOP SECRET
TOP SECRET
49
1
2
Eyes Only basis, and the first part of this was the necessary
documentation for the authority which was later signed off on
14
3
by Dick Helms as Deputy Director.
4
Beginning on my page 4, your middle of page 3.--
5
Mr. Schwarz. Well, just a moment. Page 1 is a cover story,
6
not the real story, the objectives --
7
Mr. Harvey. It is both.
8
Mr. Schwarz. But it does not recite as an objective,
9
assassination or assassination capability.
10
Mr. Harvey. No, it does not.
11
Mr. Schwarz.
Instead, it cites the obtaining of code
12 and cypher materials.
13
Mr. Harvey. Which, I would like to point out, was a
14
perfectly legitimate objective and was not in a sense, a cover
15
story except that if this project had gone so far as to the
16
actual recruitment of any agent for assassination or the target-
17
ting of any target or the mounting of any operation, it would
18
have been under this as a cover. But, those assets that were
19
spotted by QJWINN, for instance, under ZRRIFLE were also
20
honestly considered for possible clandestine procurement of
21
communications intelligence outside the U.S.
So it's --
maybe I'm not making this clear, it's a cover
22
in a sense, but it's not a phony cover, in other words.
23
24
Mr. Schwarz. Dual purpose.
Mr. Harvey.
25
It was a dual purpose.
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET
50
1
2
Mr. Schwarz.
You mentioned QJWINN. Was QJWIN / an agent
who you did hold in reserve for possible use in connection.
3
with the Executive Action program?
4
Mr. Harvey. No, QJWIN is an agent that I considered for
5
possible use and used for a limited period through Arnold Silver
6
for the spotting of individuals with criminal and underworld
7
connections in Europe for possible multi-purpose use, none of
8
whom were ever advised of the use, none of whom, as far as I
9
personally know, were. ever used.
10
Mr. Schwarz. But the multi-purpose use included as one
11 purpose the possible use in assassination?
12
Mr. Harvey. Only the sense that had we ever been saddled
with a flat, if you will, command performance on assassination.
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
I might have considered the people spotted by WIN as possibil-
ities.
But, you see, before anybody that is ever spotted is
approached for any operation and particularly
and please, I
don't mean to sound pedantic on this, I don't mean to is
should be
actually approached, there is a long period of assessment,
crosschecks, so on and so forth. This particular spotting
mechanism never actually went that far, as far as I know.
I only know of one use made by QJWIN until we terminated
It was
him some months later, I don't remember the exact date.
before I went to Rome. I know it was in connection with an
operation in the Congo that was not an assassination operation
TOP SECRET Follo
TOP SECRET
51
1
and had, as far as I know, personally, at least, nothing to do
2
with assassination.
15
3
I have checked pages 1 and 2 and 3 and my page 4.
4
Mr. Schwarz. Are pages 4 through 7, in your judgment,
5
pages that were written by Mr. Arnold Silver?
6
Mr. Harvey. As a guess, I'd say they appear to be in the
7
same writing as these first three pages.
8
Mr. Schwarz.
Are pages 8 and 9 pages that are written by
9
you?
10
11
Mr. Harvey. Well, just a moment, let me get to those.
I would also like to point out that from page 4 that
12 that is page 4, as long as it continues in the same handwriting
13
was not a part of this so-called Project Outline, these I
14 would guess were probably Arnold Silver's notes and probably
15 based, at least to an extent, on discussions he had with me,
16
and certain sort of problems and questions and principles that
17
I tossed out to be considered and cares to be exercised.
18
Mr. Schwarz.
Then pages 8 and 9 are in your handwriting,
19
is that right?
20
Mr. Harvey. Pages 8 and 9 are in my handwriting.
21
Mr. Schwarz... And at the bottom of page 8, does that
22
indicate that you had a conversation with Mr. Silver on January
26th?
23
24
Mr. Harvey. Yes, it does.
25
Mr. Schwarz. And is it your judgment that that is January
TOP SECRET
TOP SECRET-
1
26, 1961 and is about the subject of Executive Action?
2
52
3
4
Mr. Harvey. Yes, it is.
Mr. Schwarz. And it followed your conversation with Mr.
5
Bissell that you have recounted?
6
Mr. Harvey. I think probably that might be well, when
7
I first looked at this, I thought this, well, this has got to
8
be '62, but I am almost certain now that it is not. If this
9 Dick Bissell In early January and this is difficult to pinpoint
10 because there were several such discussions in varying degrees
11 of detail during the period in the spring, and very early in
12
13
'61 to the fall of '61 period, but I did find out fairly early
on that Silver had or that Bissell had discussed the question
14
of assassination with Arnold Silver, and this discussion at
15
17
18
16
the very least, had to take place after I know Bissell already
had discussed the matter with Silver X
Now, these two pieces of paper, well, I say two pieces of
It's
19
paper, what they are from they are in my handwriting.
from a yellow pad, probably the duplicate of this that I used
20
21
to keep on my desk and just make rough notes of conversations
that I had, telephone and otherwise, with various people.
22
23
Once a week I would go through them and either destroy them
classified: trash,
dictate from them, or occasionally save
24
them. There is no relationship between the material that
25 appears after the line two-thirds of the way down the page, just
TOP SECRET
TOP SECRET
53
1
before the 26/1-AS,
and the material which appears above
2
it which is tabbed SID G, tab 21.
15
3
Mr. Schwarz.
That would be Sid Gottlieb?
4
Mr. Harvey.
Sid Gottlieb.
5
Mr. Schwarz.
Doesn't the conversation with Sid Gottlieb
6
on the 25th of January indicate you had discussion which included
7
the word bankruptcy and you felt assassination was
8
Mr. Harvey. There was a general philosophic discussion of
9
assassination and assassination techniques. There was also a
10 discussion on a number of other things that were of particular
11 and specific interest to the communications intelligence field
12 and the clandestine service's responsibilities aspects, if you
13 will, and as best I can recall this conversation, this was a
14
sort of an exchange of ideas and briefing session, probably
15 held at the request of Sid Gottlieb in my office shortly after
16
17
he either took over a new job in TSD or took over as actual
Chief of TSD, which was the Technical Services Division of the
18 clandestine services.
19
Mr. Schwarz. Now the reference in the middle of that
20 conversation with Mr. Gottlieb to "Last resort beyond last
21 resort and a confession of weakness." That's referring to
22 assassination?
23
Mr. Harvey. That's obviously referring to assassination.
24 That's probably what I told Sid Gottlieb my opinion on the
:
!
25 use and propriety of assassination as a technique was.
TOP SECRET

TOP SECRET
55
1
of operational philosophy which I expressed to Gottlieb, that
2
3
4
5
the question then came in pure theory as to as in such cases
as, now assumptions, the example of 3 wrong, I am not really
sure. But the closest that I can come is that the assumptions
it might be desirable in a purely theoretical discussion and in
6
my opinion we were wrong.
Whether I said that to Gottlieb in
7
the words that are here, I just don't know.
8
Mr. Schwarz. Who were the two besides Mr. Trujillo that
9
make up the examples of 3?
10
Mr. Harvey. I presume
I have no idea, but I presume
11
that the logical candidates at that point would have been
12
Lumumba and Castro. By: logical candidates, I mean not that
14
15
16
tape 2b
17
18
19
13
we were considering them in this discussion as logical targets
for assassination, but that these were sort of the three
people that would come to mind; if you are going to go into this,
these are three to be considered.
C
But you will notice, if I may,. Mr. Schwarz, "Framework of
Sid's job. ELINT R&D Memo." Ludford is the name of the staff
officer who worked for me in Division D at that time.
20
21
22
This "translating machine" was an experimental device,
done under -- hoped for development by GE that I was most
interested in, because of the serious translation problem that
23
we had and particularly in communications intelligence.
24
So you see this was not a discussion strictly within the
25
framework of either assassination as a specific, or assassination
TOP SECRET
TOP SECRET
56
1
as a general problem.
2
Mr. Schwarz. Now, the material commencing on handwritten
3
15
page 4 and commencing in the middle of page 3 of the Senator's
4
notes, reflects in your judgment the conversation that you had
5
6
with Mr. Silver and it is his notes about that conversation, is
that right?
7
Mr. Harvey. That is my best guess.
8
It may also, however, include his own thinking and so forth.
9
I doubt if it includes it certainly would not include any
12
13
10 specific discussions, I don't think, with other officers,
11
because Arnold Silver was under specific instructions not to
discuss this as such with anybody else, at least without clearing
it with me first.
14
Mr. Schwarz.
And he starts, for example, by talking about
15
"Legal, ethical, morale, operational problems" and so forth,
16
17
and that reflects the conversation you had with Mr. Silver?
Mr. Harvey. Yes, it does.
18
Mr. Schwarz. Down toward the end of entry 3b and 3 has
19
the heading "Maximum security"
do you see that on page
4?
20
21
Mr. Harvey. Yes, I see it.
Mr. Schwarz. There is a sentence which reads as follows
22
23 two sentences, which I should read into the record, three
sentences.
24
"Within Kubark"
25
now, is that the CIA?
TOP SECRET
TOP SECRET
60
1
crossed in this document.
2
Mr. Schwarz. One way or the other?
3
Mr. Harvey.
That's right. One way or the other.
Mr. Schwarz.
Your note has a report to the DCI, the
4
5
January 26th reference, which reads in the first line AS.
6
That is Arnold Silver, I take it?..
7
8
9 matter.
Mr. Harvey.. Yes, I'm sure that's Arnold Silver.
Mr. Schwarz. Then it appears to say f-a-n-f-o-r-n DCI
What does that mean?
10
Mr. Harvey. I am not sure. The closest I could come to
11 that is a fairly illogical Fanfani,, and Fanfani was never
12
even dreamed of, as far as I know, in any such context.
13 Fanforn Burton Wides raised that with me, and I just had to
14
15
16
17
throw up my hands. I just don't know.
Mr. Schwarz. And you don't know what the reference to DCI
in the notes means?
Mr. Harvey. No, I am sorry, I do not, at this point, Mr.
18 Schwarz.
19
Mr. Schwarz. Okay.
Mr. Harvey. Are you asking me to try to interpret the
20
21 portion of this that is in my handwriting, or are you satisified
at this point?
Mr. Schwarz. Well, the other items, it seems to me, are
22
23
24
either not important or are understandable.
Maybe some of the
25 members have questions.
TOP SECRET
SECRET
Bed - 25/1
Eryer Estioi
"The Magic button
sarcaties kiire
"for a hung".
AIS 201 cover
Caubois Bankruptcy
no Stor
nat ITSO Je contrachstruct
eixes - Jum
Frailes fromй 0-2
apply brakes...
Lost resort beyoud last reiod يه
Ce confession of wakuces.
- El Benefactor assumptions-
Example or 3 "Meray"
Meno
Hear
RECE
JAN 24 1975
CIA
Anathesia.
26/1 Farform-200/- Matter
nofil Rese
1. Select proper ofern to ress-
2
3. Security Rules
4. uie leves
Resort-Brakes
3
B-WRN-AS-
sid Reseiv.
licet-v-ko

SECRET
6. No
7. no. project
9
or popen
except fer соле
8. Principal agent-
Acelet
Projel Chaft RCH-
1500- From MB.
mach sfat normal
project-br Phátke
9. Disposal -
10.70igits who iвело
ilist know before
me con par
11. Case officering
7d list - Remember
RECLINED FROM
JUN 24 1975
CIA
