176-10036-10139
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10139
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE: CIA Information Report
DATE: 10/15/1963
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 200: Vietnam, 10/6/1963-10/14/63, CIA
Reports. Box 2

suninzed via boill Kils 1/15
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs.
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by low.
CONFIDENTIAL
COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
SUBJECT RECOMMENDATION BY CABINET OFFICERS THAT
NHƯ BE MADE PRIME MINISTER
REPORT NO. TDCS-3/562,014
DATE DISTR. 15 OCTOBER 1963.
PRECEDENCE ROUT INE
REFERENCES IN 39851
DATE OF
INFO.
PLACE &
DATE ACO.
APPRAISAL
SOURCE
EARLY OCTOBER 1963
VIETNAM, SAIGON (8 OCTOBER 1963)
SEE BELOW
FIELD REPORT NO. FVS-9764
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
APPRAISAL:
A WESTERN BUSINESSMAN (B) WITH GOOD CONTACTS IN VIETNAMESE POLITICAL, CIRCLES,
FROM CUONG..
THE CABINET OFFICERS MAY HAVE MADE SUCH A RECOMMENDAT ION.

1. SUMMARY, ON 8 OCTOBER 1963 NGUYEN HOANG CUONG,
EXECUTIVE SECRETARY OF THE NATIONAL ECONOMIC COUNCIL, SAID THAT
ON 5 OCTOBER VICE PRESIDENT MOUYEN NGOC THO TOLD HIM THAT AT A
MEETING OF CABINET OFFICERS IN EARLY OCTOBER IT WAS DECIDED TO
RECOMMEND TO PRESIDENT DIEM THAT NGO DINH NHU BE APPOINTED
PRIME MINISTER. CUONG SAID THAT THIS PROPOSAL WOULD REQUIRE A
CONST I TUTIONAL AMENDMENT WHICH WOULD BE VOTED BY THE NATIONAL
ASSEMBLY WITHOUT DIFFICULTY.
هر
2. ON 5 OCTOBER VICE PRESIDENT THO TOLD CUONG THAT IN EARLY
OCTOBER HE HAD CALLED A MEETING OF ALL CABINET MEMBERS TO

CONFIDENTIAL
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OCI
STATE/DIR
GROUP I
Excluded from automaτις
downgrading and
declassification
ONE
OCR
ORR
ODT
00 EXO
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
FORM IKA OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS,
:
(15-20)
(13.
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
CONFIDENTIAL
IN 39851
(WHEN FILLED IN)
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
TDCS-3/562,014
PAGE2
DISCUSS THE STATUS OF NGO DINH NHU IN THE GOVERNMENT. THO
SAID THAT THE CABINET DECIDED TO RECOMMEND TO PRESIDENT DIEM THAT
NHU BE APPOINTED PRIME MINISTER, REASONING THAT IF THE PRESIDENT
DID NOT INTEND TO REDUCE NHU'S INFLUENCE IN GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS,
THE LATTER'S APPOINTMENT TO AN OFFICIAL GOVERNMENT POST WOULD
AT LEAST MAKE HIM ACCOUNTABLE FOR HIS ACTIONS.
2.
ON 8 OCTOBER CUONG SAID THAT IF THE PRESIDENT ACCEPTED
THIS SUGGESTION, A CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT WOULD BE REQUIRED BUT
THAT THIS WOULD POSE NO PROBLEM AS THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY WOULD
VOTE THE CHANGE WITHOUT DIFFICULTY.
3.
FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV MAAG USOM
USIS 9TH FLD STA 2ND AIR DIV. CINPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF.

CONFIDENTIAL
(WHEN FILLED IN)
FORM IK-1
1-63
ÚSE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
:
END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
CONUATION OF TDCS INFORMATION REPORT
MFG. 2-63
(15-20-44-4
