176-10037-10454 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10037-10454
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE: Information Report
DATE: 9/25/1962
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 196: Countries, Vietnam, General 9/22/62-
9/27/62. Box 6.

---

upheldivia RAC 1/85 13
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting The National Defense of the United States within the Espionage Laws Title 18, U.S.C Secs 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is
CONFIDENTIAL (When Filled In)
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
CHINA (TAIWAN) LAOS NO FORE IGN DISSEM
COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM
SUBJECT PROPOSED JOINT CHINESE NATIONALIST- REPORT NO. TDCS-3/523,453
SOUTH VIETNAMESE INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS DATE DISTR. 25 SEPTEMBER 1962
IN LAOS PRECEDENCE ROUT INE SMITH-BUNDY
_DUNGAN
_KAYSEN
IN KILDUFF
DATE OF INFO. MIO SEPTEMBER 1962 REFERENCES POUKSEN
_ SCHLESINGER
TAYLOR
PLACE &
DATE ACO. VIETNAM, SAIGON (21 SEPTEMBER 1962) FIELD REPORT NO. FVS 7977-BELK
APPRAISAL 2
SOURCE THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS-TENTATIVE
A HIGH-LEVEL MEMBER (B) OF THE CHINESE NATIONALIST DIPLOMATIC MISSION-JIN SAIGON,
WHO IS BELIEVED TO REPORT WITHOUT THE KNOWLEDGE OR APPROVAL OF HIS GOVERNMENT. KLEIN
KOMER
RASKIN
_SAUNDERS

: 1. IN MID-SEPTEMBER 1962, TRAN KIM TUYEN, CHIEF, PRESIDENT I AL
SECURITY SERVICE, PROPOSED TO HUANG TIEN-MAI, CHIEF OF THE CHINESE
NATIONALIST NATIONAL SECURITY BUREAU INTELLIGENCE STATION IN SAIGON,
THAT SOUTH VIETNAM AND NATIONALIST CHINA CONDUCT JOINT INTELLIGENCE
OPERATIONS IN LAOS. TUYEN CLAIMED THAT THE DETERIORATING SITUATION.
IN LAOS, AND THE STRONG POSSIBILITY THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM
WOULD BREAK RELATIONS WITH LAOS, NECESSITATED.. IMMEDIATE CONSIDERATION
OF SUCH A PROPOSAL TUYEN TOLD HUANG THAT HE ENVISIONED THE
ESTABLISHMENT OF INTELLIGENCE: STATIONS ON THE BORDER BETWEEN LAOS..
AND SOUTH VIETNAM, AS WELL AS IN LAOS, TO SUPPORT JOINT VIETNAMESE/
NATIONALIST: CHINESE AGENT OPERATIONS
CONFIDENTIAL :: CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FORE IGN DISSEM
GROUP I
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification
STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OC.I ONE OCR ORR. ов! 00 EXO
STATE DIR
L
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
FORM
5-62 1Ka OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS. (15-20)

---

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
CONFIDENTIAL
NO FORE IGN DISSEM TDCS-3/523,453 IN 28327
(When Filled In).
PAGE 2
!
2. HUANG CONCURRED IN PRINCIPLE, BUT ADVISED TUYEN THAT HE
HAD TO OBTAIN THE APPROVAL OF THE CHINESE NATIONALIST GOVERNMENT
BEFORE ENTERING INTO DETAILED NEGOTIATIONS. ON 19 SEPTEMBER HUANG
TELEGRAPHED HIS HEADQUARTERS IN TAIPEI, OUTLINING TUYEN'S PROPOSAL,
AND REQUESTING EARLY APPROVAL.

3. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACE USOM MAAG
CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF 9TH FIELD STATION.

CONFIDENTIAL END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROL'S
NO FORE IGN DISSEM
KUDUEF
КУЛВЕЙ
D
