2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10131
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO:
TITLE: CIA Information Telegram
DATE: 9/19/1963
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 200: Vietnam,9/17/1963-9/21/63. Box 2

---
VERSION NLK-82-60
NLK-02-320, 1103
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains, information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs.
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONFIDENTIAL
SOUTH VIETNAM
COUNTRY
SUBJECT
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE.ONLY
REPORT NO. TDCS DB-3/656,739
: GENERAL NGUYEN KHANH PLANS TO MAKE HIS
FINAL DECISION SOON ON ANY ACTION AGAINST
THE DIEM REGIME
DATE DISTR. 19 SEPTEMBER 1963
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
DATE OF
15-16 SEPTEMBER 1963
INFO.
PLACE &
VIETNAM, SAIGON (16 - 17 SEPTEMBER 1963)
DATE ACO.
APPRAISAL
SEE BELOW
REFERENCES
IN 22714
FIELD REPORT NO. FVS- 9660
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS, ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
SOURCE A COMPANY-GRADE OFFICER (F) ON THE STAFF OF GENERAL NGUYEN KHANH.
APPR KHANH MAY STILL BE THINKING ABOUT ANTI-GOVERNMENT ACTION, BUT WITHOUT ASSURANCES
FROM THE UNITED STATES OF SUPPORT, HE WILL PROBABLY NOT INITIATE ANY ACTION.
NEVERTHELESS, THE POSSIBILITY OF HIS MOUNTING A COUP D'ETAT CANNOT BE COMPLETELY
DISCOUNTED SINCE AN INDIVIDUAL CONNECTED WITH THE TRAN KIM TUYEN COUP GROUP HAS
SAID THAT KHANH MIGHT TAKE ACTION AGAINST THE DIEM GOVERNMENT, AND SINCE KHANH'S
NAME HAS BEEN MENTIONED AS ONE OF A NUMBER OF ALLEGEDLY DISSIDENT GENERALS.

1. ON 15 SEPTEMBER 1963 BRIGADIER GENERAL NGUYEN KHANH, LI
CORPS COMMANDER, SAID THAT HE WOULD DECIDE IN A DAY OR TWO

WHETHER OR NOT TO PROCEED WITH PLANNING ACTION AGAINST THE DIEM
REGIME. (FIELD COMMENT. SEE FVS-9634, TDCSDB-3/656,637, FOR: PREVIOUS
REPORT ON KHANH'S PLANNING.) HE REMARKED THAT IF HIS DECISION WERE
NEGATIVE, HE WOULD CEASE ALL PLANNING AND NOT REVIVE THE PROJECT. ON 16
SEPTEMBER KHANH SAID THAT HE HAD CHANGED HIS MIND AND WOULD MULL
OVER THE SITUATION FOR ANOTHER WEEK BEFORE GIVING HIS FINAL
DECISION. KHANH PLANNED TO RETURN TO THE 11: CORPS AREA ON 18
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
RU FORT
CIB
GROUP I
Excluded Iram automatic
downgrading and
declassification
CONFIDENTIAL NO-FOREIGN DISSEM/NO-DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND:
USE ONLY
ROCKO
STATE IN DIA ARMY ACSI NAVY PAINT TUCSI SECDEF NSA NIC XAXXXXXX OC ZONEOCR XXXXXXXXXXXXXX
STATEVOIR
EXO
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
PORM
1...4-63 1Ka OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS:
E
(15-20)

---
حا
CONFIDENTIAL
(WHEN FILLED IN)
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD TDCS DB-3/656,739
BACKGROUND-USE ONLY
IN.
PAGE
22714
2
:
SEPTEMBER

2. FIELD DISSEM. STATE (AMBASSADOR. LODGE) USMACV (GENERAL
HARKINS) CINCPAC ARPAC PACAF PACFLT.

LEMAE
20760
20
:
+302
END OF MESSAGE
:
PIA BOCE COMTET ZE LIENG TRA
?
T
A
ONTACT
TO JARIOS
CONFIDENTIAL
(WHEN FILLED IN
FORMIK-USE: PREVIOUS
EDITIONS:
1-63
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE
CONTINUATION OF TDCS. INFORMATION REPORT
ONLY
MFO
