176-10036-10117 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10117
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE: CIA Information Telegram
DATE: 7/18/1963
PAGES : 4
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 198: Vietnam, 7/1/1963-7/20/63. Box 2

SEE SANITIZED VERSION + DOWNGRADED NLK-84-15 . (18) 65
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
1. This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the. Espionage Laws, Title.U.S.C-Secs:-
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET
S. Vietnam
(When Filled In) NO FOREIGN, DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY
COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM COMREAL ONTWQE2 REPORT NO. TDCS DB-3/655,605
SUBJECT
MAJOR GENERAL DUONG VAN MINH COMMENTS ON
THE CURRENT SITUATION AND ON THE NEED FOR
A CHANGE IN THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM MY
DATE DISTR 18 JULY 1963ЕССИИ
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
DATE OF13 216 JULY 1963 OIKEUL 1812 12 THE REFERENCES LENNE 82003
INFO.
PLACE &
DATE ACO.
APPRAISAL
VIETNAM, SAIGON (17 JULY 1963) LY 1963 42 17 MIN BECYSD 10 THE
-..
SEE. BELOW
FIELD REPORT NO. FVS-9322
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE' GRADING'S ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE
SOURCE AN, AMERICAN OBSERVER (B); FROM A UNITED STATES ARMY FIELD-GRADE OFFICER; FROM
GENERAL DUONG VĂN MINH.
וד
APPR GENERAL DUONG VAN MINH PROBABLY HOLDS THESE VIEWS AND TADE TIRSES T
IS KNOWN TO O HAVE BEEN DISGRUNTLED WITH THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM SINCE 1960, D
EVEN THOUGH HE HAS NOT SO EXPRESSED HIMSELD PREVIOUS LYET OFSOURCE (SEE PARA. 2.B).
SUMMARY ON 16 JULY 1963 MAJOR GENERAL DUONG VĂN MINH,
BADDH1212
OAHI
MILITARY ADVISOR TO PRESIDENT DIEM, CRITICIZED THE PRESIDENT, SAID
BELLIODE
DIEW LORD WIPE OF 15 PAA YL THE BLИН ХОЛЕЙ THE HOV
THAT HE LACKED THE SUPPORT OF THE PEOPLE, AND ADVOCATED A CHANGE IN
THE BADDH121 1231E 12 и главVIION OF DIEN 2 155YLIGHT
THE REGIME, BUT ASSERTED THAT NGO DINH NHU COULD NOT TAKE OVER THE
MOGE ורטודוע
GOVERNMENT. HE ALSO SAID: THẬT BRIGADIER GENERAL DO CAO TRI WOULD
BEWVISKE ON І ПОГА МНЕЙ НЕ 2410 197 THE CONUIBA MYR ENIDED BA
REMA IN IN COMMAND OF THE IST DIVISION,
>
:
AW
СЬЕЗУІТИС ОNDEY WORDYJE EBOW HEYЛЕЙ 1812 МVE VEOMEEMI пижиг
2. GENERAL MINH MADE THE FOLLOWING STATEMENTS:
VLIES FORD DIEN CHVUCED CОЛЬГЕЛЕГА ВЕСОННИС СОИЛЛИСЕD THVL HЕ MVC
A. PRESIDENT DIEM HAS CHANGED SO COMPLETELY THAT IT IS NO
LEOLEE HET WE HOME BEEN THE LINE 10 HYAE CHVUCED THE СОЛЕУИНЕЦ
LONGER POSSIBLE TO REASON WITH HIM. IN THE EARLY DAYS HE HAD THE
асисбитие неЗЕГЕ ТИ МИО 31 1020 HE HVD ГОД СОМЬПЕΙΕ LONCH MITR THE
SUPPORT OF THE PEOPLE AND WAS VERY POPULAR THROUGHOUT SOUTH VIETNAM.
LOVани12 LOB WHEATBIONе воскалеOL THE СОЛЕЦINERL
CONFIDENTIAL
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
THEN HE 260VW
1:40 1609902
SECRETEN FOREIGN NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE
ONLY
STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SEGDEF. NSA NIG AID YSIA OG1. ONE OGR
STATE D'I'R
CIB
"GROUPI
Excluded from automatis
% dewagredike GRS
00.100 880
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
стигавши поM-DRESWIATION COULEOR
FORM
10-62
82 IK OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
(18-20)

SECRET
(When Filled In)
CLASSIFICATION
DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD
BACKGROUND USE ONLY
313
TDCSDB-3/655,605 82003
INT
PAGE
:
:
PORUCE
R
IT WAS A SIMPLE MATTER AT THAT TIME TO GAIN THE SUPPORT OF THE
PEASANTS FOR THE VARIOUS PROGRAMS OF THE GOVERNMENT. THEN HE BEGAN
:
SCREENING HIMSELF IN AND BY 1959 HE HAD LOST COMPLETE TOUCH WITH THE
PEOPLE. THAT MAY HAVE BEEN THE TIME TO HAVE CHANGED THE GOVERNMENT..
AFTER 1960 DIEM CHANGED COMPLETELY, BECOMING CONVINCED THAT HE WAS
:
OPERATING UNDER A MANDATE FROM HEAVEN. THIS WAS APPARENT IN HIS
REMARKS ON 7 JULY WHEN HE SAID THAT THE COUNTRY WAS GUIDED BY
GLUOW AT DAG. ОД ЈАЯЗИТЕ ЯЗICADIES TANT QUIA
::
"INTUITIVE WISDOM."
THE
AN OF
INVI HEO DIИН ИНО, СОЛГΩ ΚΟΥΚΕ
SECINE SEGIME BOY
B. THE BUDDHIST ISSUE IS AN ILLUSTRATION OF DIEM'S IRRATIONAL
НЕ ГУСКED THE 20650BL OF THE SECOND YOMOCY LED CHИСЕМИ
ATTITUDE. DIEM TOLD MINH ON 13 JULY THAT THE BINH XUYEN, THE HOA
AYDAL 208 NL DIENT CSILICISED ISED THE SBЕЗІ СЕНІ 20
HAO, AND THE CAO DAT WERE ALL STRONGER THAN THE BUDDHISTS. THEY
EVGA YRATLAM
:
BUT THE GOVERNMENT WAS
HAD REGULAR ARMED TROOPS BUT THE GOVERNMENT WAS STILL ABLE TO 58)
DEFEAT THEM, SO WHY CANNOT THE GOVERNMENT ALSO DEFEAT. THE MONKS,
2
t
WHO HAVE NEITHER ARMS NOR MILITARY ORGANIZATION? MINH WAS UNABLE
TO CONVINCE THE PRESIDENT THAT THE SITUATIONS WERE NOT THE SAME
LASIASIA
CYLE VOOR
KANE ZHE
BECAUSE OF THE TRIGIDESTAND DIEM HAS TAKEN WITH. I. REGARD TO THE
YLE BUDDHIST.ST (SOURCE COMMENT. THIS IS THE FIRST TIME MINH HAS MADE
SUCH STRONG, STATEMENTS AGAINST DIEM.) SECEDENCE YONGTHE
E CORRAL PELAVITO
THE BUDDHIST PROBLEM IS FAR FROM SETTLED TIS BECOMING
WORSE AND UNLESS THE GOVERNMENT CHANGES ITS POLICY. THERE WILL BE
ADDITIONAL BUDDHIST SELF GIMMODATIONSTEN BODIVOKOSE 23 СИГА
:
ひろの七つ
DTHERE-MUST BE A CHANGE IN THE GOVERNMENT SOUTH VIETNAM
ام
mar
14 :עם שיר טמו CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY
:
:

SECRET
(When Filled In)
CLASSIFICATION
DISSEMINATION CONTROLS:
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD
BACKGROUND USE ONLY
TDCSDB-3/655,605
(18)
IN 82003
PAGE
3
}
IS LIKE A YOUNG TREE; IT HAS FIRM ROOTS AND IS GROWING BUT IT MUST
HAVE A PROPER ATMOSPHERE SO THAT ITS LEAVES, I.E., THE PEOPLE, CAN
BREATHE THI'S SLACKING IN SOUTH VIETNAM.
EINGO DINH NHU CAN NEVER ER TAKE TAKE OVER OVER THE GOVERNMENT; (SHOULD
THE SUCCEED IT WOULD PROVE THAT THE VIET CONG (VC) ARE RIGHT IN
CLAIMING G THAT THE VCARE THE ONLY ONES WHO REALLY FIGHT, FOR THE
PEOPLE (SOURCES COMMENTE MAJOR GENERAL TRANG VAN DON, COMMANDING
GENERAL OF THE ARMY NAND BRIGADIER GENERAL LE VAN KIM, MINISTRYWHпа
OFNNATIONAL DEFENSE, TAREMMINH SECLOSE FRIENDS!)
ACHA BIMONO
WORE! BEVICEOPRESIDENTINGUYEN NGOC THOSTOLED! MINH ION195 JULYHTHATH
NTHWAS VIRTUALLY IMPOSSIBLEMATOJOBTAIN AN AGREEMENTYBETWEENITHEIN V
BUDDHISTSIAND THE GOVERNMENT BECAUSE THE SELFERRIDE OF GERTAIN KEYAVI
INDIVIDUALS, OVDET THEENHOSDANDY ARCHBISHOP NGOV DINH THUC THADOL THE
BECOME L'INVOLVED. THO HAS BEEN WANTING TO RESIGN BUT WAS NOT EVEN
PERMITTED 2TOLSUBMIT ALLERTEROOF IRESIGNATION HESTILLIANTENDSCOSH
GOMTHROUGH AWITH LIIT, CHOWEVEROL (FIELDYCOMMENTO ALEVS 9243, (TDCS25/552,503,
HKREPORTED THAT DILEM HA'DEREFUSEDITO ACCEPT LTHOIS WRITTEN
RESIGNATION, SUBMITTED CONYIKJULY FVS-9256, TDCS-3/552,565, REPORTED
THO'S STATEMENT THAT HEEWANTED TOERESIGN BUTIWAS UNCERTAINDASOTO THE
TIMINGE)112 112 THE MГИИТИЗ ОЕ HE IS YOVIE THE AC12 101 21
G. IF THE MILITARY PRESSURE AGAINST THE VC CAN BE CONTINUED
AT THE PRESENT RATE FOR CALYEAR, OTHE ARMY CAN DISRUPT THE VC ARMED
-
SECRET
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO-FOREIGN DISSEM/NO-DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND-USE ONLY

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD TDCSDB-3/655,605
BACKGROUND USE ONLY
SECRET
(When ruled in) 695831
IN 82003
PAGE
4
INSURGENTS. THE WINNING OF THE WAR AGAINST THE VCIS NOT SIMPLY A
MILITARY: PROBLEM, HOWEVER, BUT ONE THAT REQUIRES THE SUPPORT OF THE
THE PEOPLE, AND THISIS LACKING
KELOUISO
H. NO TROUBLELIS ANTICIPATED FROM THE VC ON THE 26 JULYJEM
ANNIVERSARY OF THE SIGNING OF THE GENEVA ACCORDS, BUTITHE STUDENTS
MIGHT CAUSE TROUBLE BECAUSE OF THE SUICIDE OF OPPOSITIONISTONGUYEN
TUONG TAM OTAED THO HAS BEEN питека SERIEGONS 112 101 ΕΛΕ
IMCOBRIGADIER GENERAL DO CAO TRI WILL REMAIN IN COMMAND OF THE
STEINFANTRY DIVISION FOR THE TIME BEING. AND BRIGADIER GENERAL L'EVAN
NGHIEM WIELOREMA INNINECOMMAND OF CORPS, WHICH PLACES NGHIEMEIN AN
IMPOSSIBLE POSITIONDA'S THE TWO MEN DO NOT GET ALONG WELL WITH LEACH
OTHER OTRISEPROMOTIONEWAS DESERVED BECAUSE HE IS A VERY STRONG
FIGHTER, OF(FIELD2COMMENT), EFVS-9302, DOBDB-3/655, 512,
REPORTED NHU'S
STATEMENT THAT OTRICHAD BEEN PROMOTED AND NAMED/COMMANDER COFILCORPS
FVS-9267, (TDO8-3/550/409185 REPORTED-NGHIEM! BESTATEMNT OF HIS DESIRE
TO RESIGN FROM THE TARMYCETHVL THE ATEL Cole (AC) V6E BICHI IN
3. E'FIELD DISSEMIN STATEIE (AMBASSADOR ENOLTING), USMAEV (GENERAL
HARKINS ONLY)? CINEPACK PACFLT ARPAC PACAF!***
!
БУЛЕТ ЕЗОБЕВ УДПОЛЬНЕВЕ 20 Η ΕΛΕЭ" ТЕ НЕ БЕОЬГЕ СУИ
12. ΠΙΚΕ ν λεпие 18ЕЕ! 11012710 12060тие 801 11 721
END OF MESSAGE
3
SECRET
MESSACE
CLASSIFICATION B199EMINATION CONTROLS
CNCTION-COMΙΚΡ
NO O FORDION DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY
3
