176-10037-10493 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10037-10493
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: Information Report Re: Comments
DATE: 1/28/1962
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS:
CURRENT STATUS:
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 195: Countries, Vietnam, General
11/13/61-11/31/61. Box 6.

EXEMPT NLK-81-213
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains Information, affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Esplanage Laws Time 18, U.S.C. Sed 1793. and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
CONFIDENTIAL CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM REPORT NO. TDCS-3/500,097

SUBJECT COMMENTS OF TRAN VAN LY ON THE DESIRABILITY DATE DISTR 28 JANUARY 1962
PROBLEMS AND CONSEQUENCES OF A COUP D'ETAT
INFO.
DATE OF
25 JANUARY 1962
PLACE &
DATE ACQ. VIETNAM, SAIGON (26 JANUARY 1962)
APPRAISAL
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE COSTIN
TAYLOR REFERENCES IN 18750
KAYSEN
RETAIN OR DESTROY
FIELD REPORT NO: PF-VS7006
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION: SOURCE CRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE:
SOURCE AN OVIETNAMESE NATIONAL ARMY OFFICER WORKING AT THE GENERAL STAFF HEADQUARTERS,
FROM TRAN VAN LY.

ON 25 JANUARY 1962 TRẦN VAN LY, OPPOSITION LEADER IMPRISONED
FROM NOVEMBER 1960 TO FEBRUARY 1961 FOLLOWING STHE CATTEMPTED COUP
OF 1960, SAID THAT CERTAIN GENERAL OFFICERS HAVEL CONSULTED WITH HIM
THE POSSIBILITY OF ATTEMPTING A COUP D'ETAT (FIELD COMMENT.
(TDCS-3/500,042)
FVS-6999/BY THE SAME SOURCE REPORTED HIM AS POLITIC ADVISOR TOE
GENERAL NGHIỆME) ESUCHEA COUP WOULD BE TO PREVENT THE COUNTRYIEROM
FALLING TINTO THE HANDS OF THE VIETNAMESE COMMUNISTS AVC)
NED
SAID THA THAT HE WAS SIN IN AGREEMENT WITH ATH THESE GENERALS IN
PRINCIPỨC ON THE NECESSITY FORTA COUNTDIETAN, BUTEWAS WORRIED BOTH
ABOUT THE METHOD TO BE EMPLOYED HAND THE CONSEQUENCESTO LY WASL
AWAPE THAT CUERPAIN FOEFT POALLAND RELIGIOBSTGROUPS IWISHEDATOT MUUNTOFE
CONFIDENTIAL CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTRO

STATE ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSANIC USTA OCI ONE OCR ORR OO DIA EXO
VTFS AIDS
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL TDCS-3/500,097 IN18750
PAGE

A COUP WITH THE SUPPORT OF MILITARY ELEMENTS. HOWEVER THESE GROUPS
WERE TOO DIVIDED TO BE SUCCESSFULLY BELIEVED THE ONLY SUCCESSFUL
COUF WOULD BE ONE MOUNTED BY THE ARMY ITSELF (FIELD COMMENT

TRAN VAN LY WAS A MEMBER OF THE "CARAVELLE" OPPOSITION GROUP
2.
(cs-3/474,755)
ACCORDING TO THE SOURCE OF FVS-59087HE WAS MOVING TOWARD A

NEUTRALIST POSITION IN 1960 AND WAS DISAPPOINTED OVER CONTINUED
SUPPORT TO DIỀM BY THE US A BRITISH OFFICIAL SERVICE REPORTED

THAT WHEN HE WAS RELEASED FROM PRISON ON 8 FEBRUARY 1961, HE WAS
FORCED TO SIGN A DECLARATION OF LOYALTY TO DIEM.) TΕΤΟ
SOUTH VIETNAMESE PRESIDENT

SPEAKING IN GENERAL TERMS, LY SAID THAT IN SETTING UP SUCH
A COUP TWO THINGS WERE IMPORTANT: TO AVOID BLOODSHED AND TO
ORGANIZEAS SMALLA FORCE AS POSSIBLE IN ORDER NOT TO ALLOW THERE

FLAN OF ACTION TO BE EXPLOITED BY THE VC. LY'S SOLUTION WOULD BE
TO HAVE THE GENERAL OFFICERS DECLARE THE WHOLE OF SOUTH VIETNAM
YET TO BE IN A STATE OF SETGE. THE TROOPS WOULD THEN BE FORBIDDEN
* 108020
CU
TO MOVE WITH THOUT AN EXPRESS ORDER FROM THE REVOLUTIONARY COMMITTEE
DELE OF AND ALL ROADS LEADING TO SALICONE HOUD RESOUARDED.

IN CASET THE COUP WEBE SUCC CCESSFACERICLUTINARY COMMITTE
ECL OF THREE GENERAL OFFICERS WOULDACI PORT LAVERYDAY GOVERNMENT, BUSINESS
DALS WITH THE HELP OF TECHNICAL ADVISORS AND ESTIALIS THE SECRETARIES OF
STATE WHO WOULD HAVE REMAINED AT THEIR POSTS. DURING THI PERIOD
THE PEOPLE WOULD BE ABLE TO CHOOSE THE HEAD-OF-THE-STATE
CONFIDENTIAL CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
CONFIDENTIAL NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL TDCS-3/500,097 IN 18750
PAGE 3

5. (FIELD COMMENT. LY TALKED TO SOURCE IN GENERAL TERMS. IT
IS NOT KNOWN WHETHER THIS WAS BECAUSE OF RETICENCE ON LY'S PART IN
RESPECT TO SOURCE, OR WHETHER LY IS NOT IN FACT INVOLVED IN THE
ALLEGED PLANNING OF GENERAL NGHIEM.)
6. FIELD DISEM. STATE MAAG USOM CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF

CONFIDENTIAL END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL
