176-10036-10087 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10036-10087
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE: Vietnam Communist Activities
DATE: 8/23/1962
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 196: Vietnam, 8/62. Box 2

IYCK 146.6.1.0
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains Information affecting the National Dofonse, of the United States within the meaning of The Espionage Lake Titlo 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONFIDENTIAL
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM
FILE
REPORT NO. TDCS-3/520,365 SMITH-BUNI
SUBJECT : VIETNAMESE COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE DATE DISTR. 23 AUGUST 1962 LUNGAN
SAIGON AREA KILDUFF
PETERSEN..
DATE OF JUNE-JULY 19 RETAIN OR DESTROY PRECEDENCE ROUT INE IN-SCHLESINGE
INFO. 102.97
PLACE & VIETNAM, SAIGON (2 AUGUST 1962) REFERENCES BELK
DATE ACQ. FORRESTAL
APPRAISAL 3 FIELD REPORT NO. FVS-7843 JOHNSON
SOURCE THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVEN
AN OFFICIAL GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM MILITARY SERVICE WHICH RECEIVED THE ITEMS KOMER
SEPARATELY FROM OTHER OFFICIAL SERVICES. RASKIN
SAUNDERS.

1. DURING THE LATTER HALF OF JUNE 1962 MORE THAN FIVE HUNDRED
UNARMED VIETNAMESE COMMUNISTS (VC) ENTERED THE SAIGON AREA AND WERE
LIVING IN THE HOMES OF FELLOW VC IN THE FOURTH AND EIGHT DISTRICTS
OF SAIGON. (FIELD COMMENT. THE ULTIMATE SOURCE OF THIS INFORMATION
MAY BE THE SAME AS THAT OF FVS-7681 (TDCS-3/517,156) WHICH REPORTED THAT
BETWEEN THREE AND FIVE HUNDRED VC TERRORISTS AND SABOTAGE AGENTS HAD BEEN
INFILTRATED INTO THE CAPITAL AREA.)
":
2. THE VC DISTRICT COMMITTEE FOR GO VAP (N 10-49, E 106-40) SENT
AN ARMED PLATOON TO THE CITY TO OPERATE AS SPECIAL OPERATIONS CELLS.

3. A VC CADRE, AFTER TAKING A TRAINING COURSE IN LOC THUAN, ΤΑΥ
NINH PROVINCE, WAS SENT TO SAIGON TO SET UP A BASE AMONG LABORERS
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
CONFIDENTIAL
: NO FOREIGN DISSEM
GROUP I
Excluded from evtencils
downgrading and
STATE ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR OO DIA EX
A ID
TELEGRAM INFORMATION. REPORT TELEGRAM

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
CONFIDENTIAL IN 1.0297
(When Filled In) NO FOREIGN DISSEM TDCS-3/520,365 PAGE 2

TO BE USED FOR FUTURE OPERATIONS.
4. FORTY VC GUERRILLAS BETWEEN 14 AND 16 YEARS OF AGE HAD COME
TO SAIGON TO CONDUCT SABOTAGE AND KIDNAPPINGS OF GOVERNMENT OF
:
VIETNAM AND U.S. PERSONNEL.

5. AN UNCONFIRMED REPORT SAID THAT BRIGADIER GENERAL NGUYEN
TRONG DINH HAD BEEN APPOINTED COMMANDER OF THE SOUTH VIETNAM
LIBERATION ARMY IN ORDER TO LAUNCH A LARGE-SCALE ATTACK DURING THE
VC FALL AND WINTER CAMPAIGN. (FIELD COMMENT. POSSIBLY MAJOR
GENERAL NGUYEN TRONG VINH, DEPUTY OF NGHE AN PROVINCE TO THE SECOND
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY OF THE PEOPLES GOVERNMENT OF NORTH VIETNAM,
IS MEANT.)

6. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV MAAG USOM
CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF.

CONFIDENTIAL END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
