176-10011-10152
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 5/5/2016

Agency Information
AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10011-10152
RECORD SERIES: NSF
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: WH
FROM:
TO: THE RECORD
TITLE: MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

DATE: 06/08/1961
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS: ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1C
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: UPON AGENCY REVIEW
COMMENTS: NSF:M&M:SPECIAL GROUP(CI) MEETINGS:6/61-10/62:BOX 319:PENDING NLK-92-104

3

SECRET - EYES ONLY

8 Juno 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Minutes of Special Group Meeting, 6 June 1961
PRESENT: Messrs. Bowles, Gilpatric, Bundy, Ralph Dungan, Dulles

Mr. Dungan, Special Assistant to the President, participated
in the Special Group meeting for the first time.

1. Congo

Messrs. Bowles and Gilpatric agreed with the plan for the
Congo. Mr. Bowles conditioned his approval on the acceptance of
the three provisions set forth in the State Department internal
memorandum dated 6 June 1961 (copy attached). Mr. Dulles indicated
that these conditions were accepted by the Agency but he pointed out
that the condition which prescribed the inclusion of Gizenga or his
representative in the Leopoldville Government involved the danger
of bringing in a representative of Moscow who would attempt to
subvert and control the government. Mr. Bundy felt that he could
not approve this program without reference to higher authority.

Note was made of the possibility that if Gizenga decided to
participate in a new Leopoldville Government or Parliament, he had
ample resources and a chance eventually to win control of the government.

2. Review of Political Action Projects

Mr. Bundy stated that because of the special sensitivity of
programs involving covert support to political parties and leaders
in friendly countries, higher authority wished to review them.
Mr. Bundy proposed Thursday or Friday, June 15th or 16th, for
this purpose.

Mr. Bowles suggested that we might ask to have a general
policy enunciated regarding this subject. Other members of the Group

SECRET - EYES ONLY

SECRET - EYES ONLY

suggested that a general policy statement might not be sufficiently
flexible to take care of special situations which might arise.

Mr. Dulles noted that the pertinent NSC paper authorized
programs such as that under discussion, but emphasized that he
would only undertake this type of activity if it was fully supported
by the Department of State and higher authority. He stated that he
fully appreciated the sensitivity of this type of activity. Mr. Dulles
said, however, that he felt the Special Group should have some
latitude to make decisions on those matters within the general policy
which might be laid down by higher authority without referral of
each specific case for approval.

Mr. Bundy stated that he would like Mr. Dungan to work with
our people to the preparation of the briefing to be given higher
authority next week.

3. Release Procedures - Francis Gary Powers

Because of the contingency nature of the proposal and because
of the crowded agenda, discussion of this matter was deferred to the
next meeting.

4. STPOLLY Flight, Vietnam

This flight was approved with Chinat personnel. There was some
discussion as to the desirability of having South Vietnamese conduct
these missions but it was pointed out that they did not have the
competence.

5. Covert Annex, Vietnam

This annex was approved. It was noted that a progress report
had just been received and it was suggested that this report be
distributed to members of the Group.

6. Covert Annex, Korea

Mr. Bundy reiterated the decision that covert annexes should
not be processed through the NSC machinery. Because of the interest
of higher authority in political action operations in friendly areas (see
Item 2) and since this annex was written in rather broad terms, he
would like to check it further.

2
SECRET-EYES ONLY

SECRET - EYES ONLY

7. TACKLE

Mr. Dulles stated that while he wanted to open discussion of
this matter at this meeting, he did not expect a final decision to to
made until the next meeting. Mr. Bundy noted the previous reserva-
tions of the State Department and the fact that this matter had been
considered but not approved three times previously. Mr. Gilpatric
supported the need for current Information which TACKLE would
produce and suggested the possible use of U.S. personnel for the
TACKLE mission. Mr. Dulles stated his opinion that the use of
American personnel would raise serious problems in the event of
an accident. The use of well qualified Chinat crows, in his opinion,
would mitigate the risks involved. It was agreed that the proposal
would be resubmitted later.

8. Nicaragua

Mr. Dulles outlined the nature and value of the equipment
remaining at Puerto Cabezas and of the need for negotiating with
Samoza to effect its recovery. He indicated that some quid pro quo
would probably be involved in achieving an agreement with Somoza.
Mr. Bundy stated that this was a matter that should be negotiated
between the Agency and the Department of State and need not be again
referred to the Special Group.

9. Cuba

Mr. Dulles stated that he wanted to raise in a general way at
this meeting the problem of the Agency's relations with the exile groups,
the payment to dependents of the strike force and the publications
which the Agency has been supporting. He emphasized that these
involved a considerable amount of money and that the matter should
be resolved at an early date. It was agreed that the Agency should
discuss this matter with Deputy Assistant Secretary Morales-Carrion
and submit a formal proposal to co early meeting of the Special Group.

10. Minutes of Special Group Meetingo

Mr. Bundy requested that copies of the minutes of Special Group
meetings be forwarded to members of the Group for approval and
3
SECRET - EYES ONLY

SECRET - EYES ONLY

retention. Mr. Gilpatric noted the very close relationship between
his office and the Agency and felt that he could obtain all the
information he needed without receiving a copy of the minutes.
Mr. Dulles suggested that because of the sensitivity of these records
and because some of the references contained therein involved the
use of pseudonyme, the need of the Group might be satisfied by
having copies of the minutes of each meeting made available at the
subsequent meeting for approval. Messrs. Bundy and Dungan agreed
to the submission of the minutes for approval at a subsequent meeting
but stated that they might have a need for a complete record immediatoly
at hand to answer any questions put to thers by higher authority.

THOMAS P. SCHREYER
4
SECRET-EVES ONLY
