176-10036-10149 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10149
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM :
TO : -
TITLE: CIA Information Report
DATE: 10/2/1963
PAGES: 6
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 200: Vietnam,9/22/63-10/6/63, CIA
Reports. Box 2

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs..
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
(When Filled In) NS ICHTEN DISSEMINO DISSEM ABROAD BACKGROUND USE ONLY
COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM
SUBJECT FURTHER PLANNING OF LANG COUP GROUP
DATE OF 26-30 SEPTEMBER 1963
INFO.
PLACE &
VIETNAM, SAIGON (30 SEPTEMBER 1963)
BACKGROUND USE ONLY
REPORT NO. TDCS DB-3/657,031
DATE DISTR. 2 OCTOBER 1963
PRECEDENCE PRIORITY
REFERENCES IN 31.379
FIELD REPORT NO. FVS 9725
DATE ACO.
APPRAISAL SEE BELOW
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
SOURCE A CLOSE ASSOCIATE (C) OF LANG, FROM LANG.

APPR: LANG MAY BE MAKING COUP. PLANS AS REPORTEDBUT THE DEGREE TO WHICH.. OTHER IN-
DIVIDUALS NAMED MAY BE INVOLVED CANNOT BE JUDGED. GENERAL TY PROBABLY HAS SUPPORTED THE
GENERALS' DEMANDS ON PRESIDENT DIEM. THE MEETING OF DIEM WITH THE TROOP COMMANDERS POS-
SIBLY TOOK PLACE AS REPORTED. LANG PROBABLY HOLDS THE VIEWS CITED.
1. SUMMARY. ON 30 SEPTEMBER 1963 HUYNH VAN LÀNG, PROFESSOR
OF ECONOMICS AT SAIGON UNIVERSITY SAID THAT LIEUTENANT. GENERAL
L'E VAN TY CHIEF, JOINT GENERAL STAFF (JGS), HAD REINFORCED THE
GENERALS' DEMANDSFFOR GOVERNMENTAL REFORMS BUT THAT SOME
GENERALS WERE CONVINCED THAT THE COUP SHOULD TAKE PLACE
REGARDLESS OF WHETHER DIEM INTTIATES REFORMS BRIGADIER GENERAL
TRAN THIEN KHIEM, CHIEF OF STAFF, JGS, WASCOONCERNED ABOUT
VIET CONG MILITARY ACTIVITY NEAR SAIGON. HE AND OTHER GENERALS
WANTED TO BE ASSURED OF UNITED STATES SUPPORT IN THE EVENT THAT
A COUP SUCCEEDED. COLONEL DO MAU, CHIEF, MILITARY SECURITY
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEMINO DISSEM ABROAD BACKGROUND USE ONLY
STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY. AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC XXXXXXXX OCI ONE
STATE/DIR
CIB
:
GROUP I
Excluded from autematic
downgrading, and
declassification
OCR XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX_EXO
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
FORM
10-62
1K:
OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
(15

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
14
IN
SECRET
TDCS DB-3/657,031
31375
(When Filled In)
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD
BACKGROUND USE ONLY
PAGE
2
SERVICE, HAS ATTEMPTED TO INFLUENCE VIETNAMESE AIR FORCE (VNAF)
OFFICERS TO ATTACK GIA LONG PALACE. THE COUP PLOTTERS WERE
CONCERNED ABOUT PRESIDENT DIEM'S MEETINGS WITH ARMY OFFICERS
DURING WHICH THE LATTER RECEIVED GIFTS OF MONEY. LANG'S PLAN FOR
REORGANIZATION OF THE GOVERNMENT FOLLOWING THE COUP HAS BEEN
ACCEPTED IN PRINCIPLE BY THE REVOLUTIONARY COMMITTEE AND HE HAS
STARTED SELECTING MEMBERS OF A SHADOW GOVERNMENT, LANG HAS
ADVISED POSTPONING THE COUP UNTIL HIS GOVERNMENTAL PLANNING
HAS BEEN COMPLETED.
i
2. LANG MADE THE FOLLOWING STATEMENTS ABOUT MILITARY
DEVELOPMENTS:
A. LIEUTENANT GENERAL LE VAN TY, RECENTLY RETURNED FROM
THE UNITED STATES, MET WITH OTHER GENERALS ON 26 OR 27
SEPTEMBER AND THEN SAW PRESIDENT DIEM TO URGE GOVERNMENTAL REFORMS.,
INCLUDING THE APPOINTMENT OF GENERALS TO THE MINISTRIES
OF NATIONAL DEFENSE AND INTERIOR.
B. GENERAL KHIÊM AND OTHER GENERALS WERE BECOMING
CONVINCED THAT REFORMS ALONE WOULD NOT BE SUFFICIENT AND THAT
THE ENTIRE NGO FAMILY HAD TO BE REMOVED FROM OFFICE.
C. KHIỆM WAS CONCERNED ABOUT INCREASED VIET CONG (VC)
MILITARY ACTIVITY NEAR SAIGON AND THE COUP PLOTTERS FEARED
POSSIBLE VC EXPLOITATION OF AN ATTEMPTED COUP D'ETAT.
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEMINO DISŞEM ABROAD
BACKGROUND USE ONLY.

i
SECRET
(When Filled. In)
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
14
IN
NO FOREIGN DISSEMINO DISSEM ABROAD BACKGROUND USE ONLY
TDCS DB-3/657,031
PAGE
31379
3
i
:
D. KHIEM AND OTHER GENERALS DID NOT WISH TO ATTEMPT A
COUP, UNTIL IT WAS DETERMINED. THAT THE UNITED STATES WOULD
SUPPORT THEM IF THEIR COUP SUCCEEDED.
E. COLONEL DO MAU, WORKING THROUGH LIEUTENANT COLONELS
NGUYEN CAO KY, 1ST TRANSPORT GROUP COMMANDER AND DO KHAC MAI,
VNAF CHIEF OF STAFF, HAS INDEPENDENTLY ATTEMPTED TO INFLUENCE
VNAF OFFICERS TO MOUNT A COUP AND ATTACK GIA LONG PALACE.
LANG'S GROUP BELIEVED THAT MAU WAS TOO INDISCREET BUT PLANNED
TO CAPITALIZE ON THE SITUATION IF THE VNAF DID BEGIN A COUP.
(FIELD COMMENT. IT HAS BEEN REPORTED THAT MAI AND MAU WERE
DISAPPOINTED THAT NO ACTION HAS BEEN TAKEN AGAINST THE REGIME.)
:
F. GENERAL KHIEM CLAIMED THAT HELICOPTER UNITS WERE
INCLUDED IN THE LANG COUP GROUP.
G. PRESIDENT DIEM RECENTLY SUMMONED MILITARY OFFICERS,
:
:
WITH THE RANK OF CAPTAIN AND ABOVE, WHO COMMANDED TROOP UNITS IN
AND NEAR SAIGON AND GAVE THEM SUMS OF MONEY RANGING FROM
30,000 το 100, ØØØ PIASTERS. THE MONEY OSTENSIBLY WAS SEIZED
:
FROM THE VC. COLONEL NGUYEN VAN THIEN, VIETNAMESE ARMOR COMMANDER,
RECEIVED 10, ØØØ PIASTERS, WHICH APPARENTLY HAS CAUSED HIM то
RENEW HIS ALLEGIANCE TO DIEM. SOME JUNIOR OFFICERS COUNTED ON
TO SUPPORT THE COUP HAD BEEN IMPRESSED BY THEIR MEETING WITH THE
PRESIDENT, BUT OTHERS WERE NOT AND HAVE JOINED THE COUP GROUP.
(
SECRET
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
...
BACKGROUND USE ONLY
:
NO FOREIGN DISSEMIND DISSED ARRO
PORNO DISSLIM ABROAD

SECRET
(When Filled In)
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
IN
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD BACKGROUND USE ONLY
TDCS DB-3/657,031
PAGE
313
4
(FIELD COMMENT.. SEE FVS 9712 (TPCS-3/560,375 ) FOR THAO'S STATEMENT T
THẠT NHƯ HAD GIVEN LARGE SUMS OF MONEY TO MILITARY OFFICRS.)
H. DIEM HAS GIVEN LARGE SUMS OF MONEY TO COLONEL HUYNH
HUU HIEN, VNAF COMMANDER. ACCORIDNG TO GENERAL KHIEM, DIEM HAS
GIVEN HIEN ORDERS TO USE THE VNAF FOR COUNTERCOUP ACTION AND
FOR EVACUATION OF THE PRESIDENT IF NECESSARY.
1. DIEM OFFERED LIEUTENANT COLONEL PHAM NGOC THAO,
INSPECTOR OF STRATEGIC HAMLETS, THE POSITION OF DIRECTOR
GENERAL OF NATIONAL POLICE WHILE NHU OFFERED HIM COMMAND OF THE
SPECIAL FORCES. THAO, HOWEVER, HAS NOT WAVERED IN HIS SUPPORT
OF THE COUP.
:
3.
LANG SAID THAT HE HAS URGED DELAY IN MOUNTING THE
COUP UNTIL HE HAS COMPLETED HIS PLANS FOR THE NEW GOVERNMENT
SO THAT THERE WOULD BE NO VOID FOR THE VC TO EXPLOIT. HE
SAID THAT THE REVOLUTIONARY COMMITTEE HAS ACCEPTED IN
PRINCIPLE HIS IDEAS CONCERNING ORGANIZATION OF A NEW GOVERNMENT.
(FIELD COMMENT: IN LANG'S PROPOSED GOVERNMENT THE REVOLUTIONARY
COMMITTEE WOULD REPLACE PRESIDENT DIEM. THE TERM MINISTER WOULD
BE USED INSTEAD OF COORDINATING SECRETARY OF STATE AND
MINISTER OF SECURITY AND MINISTER OF POLITICAL AFFAIRS WOULD
BE ADDED TO THE GOVERNMENTAL STRUCTURE, WHICH WOULD NOT
DIFFER DRASTICALLY FROM THE PRESENT ONE.) LANG HAS SELECTED
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET ND FOREIGN DISSEMINO DISSEM ABROAD
BACKGROUND USE ONLY

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS:
IN
BACKGROUND USE ONLY
TDCSDB-3/657,031
PAGE
3.1379
5
(When Filled In) NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD
THE FOLLOWING INDIVIDUALS AS MEMBERS OF A SHADOW CABINET:
A. GENERAL KHIEM, MINISTER OF SECURITY
B.
JUSTICE.
VO VAN HIEN, CURRENTLY A SAIGON LAWYER, MINISTER OF
C. LANG, EITHER MINISTER OF ECONOMY OR DEPUTY MINISTER
OF ECONOMY FOR FINANCE.
D. NGUYEN TON HOAN, PROMIENT OPPOSITION LEADER IN
EXILE, MINISTER OF CULTURAL AND SOCIAL AFFAIRS.
:
E. NGUYEN THAI, OPPOSITION LEADER IN THE UNITED STATES,
EITHER MINISTER OF POLITICAL AFFAIRS OR DEPUTY MINISTER OF
POLITICAL AFFAIRS FOR CIVIC ACTION.
F. MAJOR GENERAL TRAN VAN MINH, DEPUTY MINISTER OF
SECURITY FOR DEFENSE.
G. NGUYEN HUY NGHIA, GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM (GVN)
AMBASSADOR TO TOKYO, DEPUTY MINISTER OF SECURITY FOR INTERIOR.
H. NGUYEN HUU CHAU, FORMER MINISTER OF INTERIOR UNDER
DIEM CURRENTLY IN EXILE, DEPUTY MINISTER OF POLITICAL AFFAIRS
FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
:
1
:
AU TRUONG THANH, PROFESSIONAL ECONOMIST, DEPUTY
MINISTER OF ECONOMY FOR ECONOMIC AFFAIRS.
J. LIEUTENANT COLONEL PHAM NGOC THAO, DIRECTOR GENERAL
OF NATIONAL POLICE.
:
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD
BACKGROUND USE ONLY
:

CLASSIFICATION
DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
IN
TDCS DB-3/657,031
BACKGROUND USE ONLY
SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEMINO DISSEM ABROAD
(When Filled in)
LANG. HAS CONTACTED ALL OF THE ABOVE EXCEPT NGHIA, CHAU AND HOA,
HE HAS SENT A CATHOLIC PRIEST TO PARIS TO CONTACT CHAU AND
WAS PLANNING TO CONTACT THE OTHERS EVENTUALLY.
4. LÀNG SAID THAT HE WAS STRONGLY OPPOSED TO THE
INCLUSION OF TRAN KIM TUYEN, RECENTLY ASSIGNED AS GVN CONSUL
GENERAL TO CAIRO, IN THE NEW GOVERNMENT. NEVERTHELESS, THAO
HAS ASSURED TUYEN'S SUPPORTERS IN SAIGON THAT TUYEN WILL BE A
MEMBER OF THE REVOLUTIONARY COMMITTEE IN ORDER TO ASSURE
THEIR SUPPORT FOR THE COUP.
5.
FIELD DISSEM. STATE (AMBASSADOR LODGE) USMACV (GENERAL :
HARKINS) CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF.
PAGE
1
END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
BACKGROUND USE ONLY
SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD
14
31379
6