2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10036-10097
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: Central Intelligence Agency Information Report
DATE: 4/25/1963
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS:
CURRENT STATUS:
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 197: Vietnam, 4/63-5/63. Box 2

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

S. Vietnam
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18. U.S.C Secs
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L  NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM REPORT NO. TDCS-3/544,961
SUBJECT VIET CONG CONCENTRATION ON DATE DISTR. 25 APRIL 1963
TERRORIST AND MILITARY
SUBVERSION ACTIVITY IN THE
CAPITAL AREA
DATE OF EARLY APRIL 1963 PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
INFO. REFERENCES IN

PLACE & VIETNAM, SAIGON (8 APRIL 1963)
DATE ACO.
APPRAISAL 3 FIELD REPORT NO. FVS-8792
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE AN OFFICIAL GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM INTELLIGENCE SERVICE; FROM SOURCES
-
DESCRIBED AS VIET CONG PENETRATIONS.

1. IN EARLY APRIL 1963, WARD-LEVEL OFFICIALS IN THE VIET CONG (VC)
SAIGON-CHOLON-GIA DINH SPECIAL ZONE WERE INFORMED THAT TERRORIST AND
MILITARY SUBVERSION ACTIVITY WOULD BE INCREASED. THE AREA TERRORIST
ORGANIZATION WOULD OPERATE UNDER DISTRICT ORGANIZATIONS, WHEREAS
PREVIOUSLY IT HAD BEEN DIRECTLY AND SOLELY RESPONSIBLE TO THE SPECIAL
ZONE COMMITTEE. EVERY DISTRICT MUST DEVELOP ONE OR TWO TERRORIST
GROUPS CONSISTING OF THREE CELLS EACH. OPERATIONS OF THESE GROUPS
WOULD NOT BE LIMITED TO THEIR OWN DISTRICTS BUT COULD BE EXPANDED
THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRE ZONE, AS OPPORTUNITIES AROSE. AMERICANS WERE
:
TO BE THE PRIMARY TARGETS OF ALL OPERATIONS.
:
::

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L  NO FOREIGN DISSEM
GROUP I
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declasufication

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA. NIC A.ID USIA OC I ONE OCR ORR OBI 00 IDII
STATE/DIR EXO

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
5-62
FORM 1Kb OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS, (15-20)
SANITIZED MK. 01.197.6.8.11/15

CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS IN
TDCS-3/544,961
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L  NO FOREIGN DISSEM PAGE TWO

2. VC COUNTERPROPAGANDA PERSONNEL OF THE SAIGON-CHOLON-GIA DINH
SPECIAL ZONE RECEIVED INSTRUCTIONS TO SUSPEND ALL ACTIVITY AND AWAIT
TRANSFER ORDERS. THEY UNDERSTAND THAT MANY WOULD BE TRANSFERRED INTO
MILITARY SUBVERSION ORGANIZATIONS IN THE AREA.

3. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV AID MAAG
USIA CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF 9TH FIELDSTATION 2ND AIR
DIVISION.

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L  NO FOREIGN DISSEM
