176-10036-10135 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10036-10135
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: CIA Information Telegram
DATE: 10/4/1963
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS:
CURRENT STATUS:
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 200: Vietnam, 10/6/1963-10/14/63. Box 2

TELEGRAM ORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs.
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation on of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
CONFIDENTIAL CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS NO FOREIGN DISSEM
COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM REPORT NO. TDCS-3/560,871

SUBJECT PLANNED SUICIDE OF AMBASSADOR DATE DISTR. 4 OCTOBER 1963
BUU HOI'S MOTHER, DIEU HUE PRECEDENCE PRIORITY

DATE OF 3 OCTOBER 1963 REFERENCES IN 32958
INFO.
PLACE & VIETNAM, SAIGON (3 OCTOBER 1963)
DATE ACO.
APPRAISAL SEE BELOW FIELD REPORT NO. FVS 9731
SOURCE THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL DE CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
A VIETNAMESE BUSINESSMAN (F) WITH GOOD CONTACT'S AMONG BUDDHISTS.

APPR: EARLIER ALLEGED INTENTIONS OF DIEU HUE TO COMMIT SUICIDE IN SUPPORT OF
THE BUDDHIST CAUSE WERE WIDELY PUBLICIZED. IT IS POSSIBLE THAT SHE
MIGHT DO SO.

1. BY 3 OCTOBER 1963 THE BUDDHIST NUN, DIEU HUE, MOTHER OF
BUU HOI, VIETNAMESE SCIENTIST, AMBASSADOR TO SEVERAL AFRICAN
COUNTRIES AND CURRENTLY THE GOVERNMNT OF VITNAM (GVN) OBSERVER
AT THE UNITED NATIONS (UN), AD DECIDED TO COMMIT SUICIDE, PROBABLY
ON 5 OCTOBER. THREATWAS TIMED FOR IMPACT ON THE UN BUT WAS NOT
TO BE BY BURNING.
2. DIEU HUE HAD PREPARED A LETTER DENOUNC ING HER SON AND
CLIMING THAT BUDDHISM WAS STILL BEING PERSECUTED IN VIETNAM,
COPIES OF WHICH WERE TO BE DISTRIBUTED TO THE FORIEGN PRESS AND
TO THE "CLANDESTINE" OPPOSITION BY HER COMPANION AND ATTENDANT, A

CONFIDENTIAL CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS NO FOREIGN DISSEM
STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC A10 USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR OO EXO
STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
IMMEDIATE TO: STATE (RCI) (FOR HUGHES: PLS PASS TO MR. HILSMAN)

FORM 1
4-63 Ka OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS, (15-20)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
CONFIDENTIAL IN 32958
(WHEN FILLED IN) NO FOREIGN DISSEM TDCS-3/560,871 PAGE 2.

YOUNGER NUN.
3. JUST PRIOR TO THE SUICIDE, THE COMPANION PLANNED. TO.
DELIVER A COPY OF THE LETTER TO THE U..S EMBASSY FOR AMBASSADOR
LODGE AND TO SEEK ASYLUM THERE. SHE BELIVED HER LIFE WOULD BE
IN DANGER AS THE GVN WOULD KNOW THAT ONLY SHE COULD HAVE DISTRIBUTED:
THE LETTER.
4. THICH THIEN HOA, PRESIDENT OF THE PRO-GVN UNION COMMITTEE
FOR THE DEFENSE OF PURE BUDDHISM AND MOST OF THE OTHER MONKS AND
NUNS AT THE AN QUANG PAGODA, WHERE DIEU HUE AND HER COMPANION
RESIDE, WERE UNAWARE OF THE SUICIDE PLAN.
5. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV MAAG USOM
USIS 9TH FLD. STA: 2ND AIR DIV. CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF

CONFIDENTIAL
(WHEN FILLED IN)
END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS.
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

FORM 1K-1:
1-63
MFG.. 2-63 (15-20-44-47)
USE- PREVIOUS:
• EDITIONS
INUATION OF TDCS INFORMATION REPO
