176-10030-10422 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10030-10422
RECORD SERIES: Sorensen Papers
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR :
FROM: Schlesinger, Jr.
TO: President Kennedy
TITLE: Memo to President CIA Reorganization
DATE: 6/30/1961
PAGES: 15
SUBJECTS: CIA
DOCUMENT TYPE: Memoranda
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1C
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 8/21/1998
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: Sorensen Papers: Classified Subject Files 1961-64 Box 47, CIA,
Document 1a.

NW 49061 DocId: 32622644 Page 1

SECRET

June 30, 1961

SEE SANITIZED
VERSION
NLK-84-149
ARABIC.C. 9/02

MEMORANDUM FC. THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: CLA Reorganisation

I submit the following views as one who worked in CSS during the
war and served as a periodic CIA consultant in the years since.

Un balance, CIA's record has probably been very good. In the
nature of clandestine operations, the triumphs of an intelligence
agency are unknown; all the public hears about (or should hear
about) are its errors. Put, again in the nature of the case, an
ayency dedicated to clandestine activity can afford damned isw
visible errors. The important thing to recognise today, in my
judgment, is that the CIA, as at present named and constituted, has
about used up its quota. Es margin for future error is practically
non-existent. One more CIA debacle will shake faith considerably
in US policy, at home as well as abroad. And, until CIA is visibly
reorganised, it will (as in the Algerian instance) be widely blamed for
developments of which it is wholly innocent.

The argument of this memorandum is that CIA's trouble can be traced
to the autonomy with which the agency has been permitted to operate,
and that this autonoray is due to three main causes: (1) an inadequate
doctrine of clandestine operations; (2) an inadequate conception of
the relationship between operations and policy; (3) an inadequate

Or should be -- a gross and repeated. CIA failing has been its
occasional readiness to succumb to the temptations of favorable
publicity. The The Guatemalan and Iranian operations were almost
nullified by the flood of self-congratulatory publicity which followed
them (e. g., the articles by Richard and Gladys Harkness, "The
Mysterious Doings of CIA," Saturday Evening Post, bet 30, No.
13, 1954).

NW 49061 DocId:32622644 Page 2
SECRET

2.

conception of the reintionship between operations and intelligence.
The memorandum also suggests ways in which some of these prob-
lems can perhaps be llevinted

L CLA Autonomy
:
CIA conducts three : main forms of secret work, clandestine intelli-
gence collection: comert political operations; and paramilitary
activities. It carries on these functions with relative autonomy.
The reasons for the autonomy are historical.
:
When CIA began, the State Department, still thinking too much in
terms of its traditional missions in foreign affairs, losked on this
new venture with suspicion and renounced the opportunity to seize
firm control of CIA operations. it did not, for example, try to
establish any effective system of clearance for CIA activities; and
some ambassadors frankly preferred not to know what CIA was up to
in their countries. After 1953 the fact that the Secretary of State and
the Director of Central Intelligence were brothers further confirmed
CIA's independence from supervision by State Department desks.

In the meantime, CIA grew in size and power. During the fifties it
began in some areas to cutstrip the State Department in the quality of
ite personnel. Partly because CIA paid higher salaries and even
more perhaps because Allen Dulles gave his people courageous pro-
tection against MicCarthyite attacks, CIA was able to attract and hold
a larga number of able and independent-minded men. The mere it
added brilliant activists to its staff, the mere memestum its operations
developed, and the greater role it played in the initiation of policy.

By the time that Stato had begun to be fully aware of the problems
created by an active and autonomous CIA, it had long since missed.
the chance to establish its own ultimate authority. While State re-
tained a nominal supervision over covert political operations, this was
to some degree offset by CIA's tendency to present a proposed operation
simost as a fait accompli; State never had title to central overt
clandestine intelligence collection; and it bad lost ground in such
areas as overt political reporting and even in the maintenance of
evert diplomatic contacts.

NW 49061 DocId: 32622644 Page 3
SECRET
:

SECRET:

For its part. CIA had developed a whole series of functions paral-
leling already existing functions of the State Department, and of
the Defense Departsant as well. Today it has its own politicai
desks and military #ale; it has in effect its own foreign service;
it has (or hes had) the own combat forces), it even has its own sir
force. As annual budget is about times that of the State Depart-
iment. The contemporary CIA possesses many of the characteristica
of a state within a stato.

II Doctrine

Though CLA's autonomy developed for historical reasons, it has been
able to endure because there is no doctrine governing our conduct of
clandestine operatione. The problem of doctrine for CIA to the extent
to which its various clandestine missions are compatible with a free
and open society.

Yot
It is idle to argue that, because the Communists can do such-and-sech,
we are free to do it too. Communism is a creed nurtured in con.
spiracy: and the whole point of Communist social and political organi
sation is to make conspiracy effective. f 'fighting fire with fire' means
contracting the frecioms traditionally enjoyed by Americans in order
to give more freedom to CIA, no one seriously wishes to do that.
I do not feel that we have tried rigorously to think through the limits
which the maintenance of an open society places on secret activity.
Until this is done, CIA's role will not be clearly defined and under-
stood. The problem which must be faced is: what sort of secret
activity is consistent with the preservation of a free secial order?
:
We must begin, I believe, by accepting the fact that the United States
will continue to be a nation in which politicians will ask questions and
make speeches, reportere will dig out stories, newspapers will pub-
lish editorials, individuals, driven by promptings of conscience, will
blurt out things harmful to the state, and so on. We do not wish to
change these things and could not do so without violating the essence
of our society. These things make up the framework in which CIA
must operates. In abort, they constitute the problem; and, as
General Marshall used to say, "There's no point in fighting the
problem."

Dame 4
SECRET

SECRET

Thers follows from ads, I would think, the conclusion that secret
activities are permissible so long as they do not corrupt the
principles and practices of our society, and that they cease to be
permissible when their effect is to corrupt these principles and
practices.

Each form of secre: activity presents its own problem. Clandestine
intelligence collection has been a traditional function of the national
state. ts rules and usages are fairly well established in the
main, espionage, if conducted with discretion, should present no
great problem. However, when conducted with an open checkbook
and a broad mandate evan espionage can begin to push against the
limits of secret activity in an open society. I consider later, for
example, the question of the Controlled American Source (CAS) sid
whether the overdoing of CAS is not beginning to harm other ar
of the government.
4
Covert political operations present a trickier problem. Occasions
arise when it is necessary to subsidise newspapers, politicians and
organisations in other countries. But corruption of the political life
of another nation is not a responsibility to be lightly assumed. I'
wonder whether CIA has not done too much of this for the joy of it.
Paramilitary activities create an even more difficult problem, if
only because the problems of concealment are so much more difficult.

In general, I would suggest that any secret operation whose success is
dependent on the suppression of news, on lying to Congressmen and
journalists and on the deception of the electorate should be undertaken
only when the crisis is so considerable that the gains really seem to
outweigh the disadvantages. This suggests that the sise of the pro-
posed operation may be of crucial importance. Small operations can
be done with a minimum of accompanying corruption. The greater.
the visibility of the operation, the more its success depends on
thwarting the impulses and denying the values of an open society,
the riskier it becomes, and the more urgent it is that an overwhelming
casa be made for its necessity.

In short, when confronted with a proposed operation, we must not only
ask whether the operation is technically feasible in its own terms; we
must ask whether its success requires our open society to be in قه
serious way false to its owa principles.
:
นพ 10061 Docta 32622644 Page 5

.M..
SECRET

5.

III. Operations and olicy
Clandestine activitie should be assessed not only in the context
of their relationship to an open society but also in the context of thei:
relationship to United States foreign policy.

CIA operations have not been held effectively subordinate to U. S.
foreign policy.

1. Clandestins satelligence collection is, by charter, free from
State Department control. This fact exposes American foreign policy
to a multituds of embarrassments when CIA is discovered recruiting
agents or developing sources in a friendly country. The recent
Singapore case, when CIA, without notice to the Consul General,
tried to subvert a member of the Special Branch of the Singapore
Police provides an instructive example. After complications of
Indicrous complexity, including an attempt to subject the recruit to
a lie-detector test, it turned out that the recruit had long since
informed his superiors of the CIA approach and was leading CIA
into a trap which, when sprung, produced considershie embarrass-
ment to relations between the US and the Singapore government.
There have been troubles of a comparable sort in Pakistan and in
Japan (where a group of Chinese Nationals were smuggled into Sasebo
to work in a CIA-NSA operation).

CIA has said that, in such cases, neither the Embassy nor the Depart-
ment in Washington is normally informed of this type of operation.
In short, no one knows how many potential problema fer US foreign
policy -- and how much potential friction with friendly states -- are
being crested as this moment by CIA clandestine intelligence operations.
Surely there is an argument for permitting State to decide whether the
advantage to be gained by the operation (o.g., the information derivable
from an agent within the Special Branch of the Bingapore Police) out-
weighs the risk (e. g., exasperating the local government and shaking
its confidence both in pur purposes and in our sonse), Clandestine
intelligence operations should plainly be cleared bath with the Depart-
ment of State and (save for exceptional instances and on agreement of
the Secretary of State) with the local U.S. Ambassador,

10061 DocTa-32622644 Page 6
SECLEC

:
SECRET

2. Covert political operations technically require State
Department clearance. In practice, however, CIA has often been
able to seize the initiative in ways which reduce State's role almost
to that of a rubber האם :

This has been partly De consequence of the superior drive and
activism of CIA personel, especially as compared with the diffider.ne
of State Department personnel. For example, when men come to CIA
with the assignment of developing covert political campaigns or
organising coups or prepazing for paramilitary warfare, those men
naturally fall to work with ingenuity and seal; they probably feel that
they are not earning their pay unless, say, they organise as many
coupe as possible. The concept of 'contingency planning' has
legitimatized the concrete preparation of operations still presumabiy
in a hypothetical stage; people did not at first notice that 'contingency
planning.' when carried to the stage of recruitment and training cá
personnel, creates a vested interest which often transforms contin-
gencies into apparent necessities. Thus, if a group is assembled
and revved up on a contingency basis, then the failure to carry the
project through (it is ergued) will invite the disappointment and
alienation of the group; so the pressure increases to follow through
on what bad started sa a pure apoculation. This was a central factor,
of course, in the Cuban decision -- the fact that disbandment of the
Cuban force in Guatemala just seemed to creste too many problems and
embarrassments. Having entered into relations with personalities in
foreign lands, CIA has sometimes seemed to feel that we must thoro
after do pretty much what they want -- or else they will blow security
or even go over to the Communists. This approach has made us on
occasion the prisoners of our own agenta. *
:
We become prisoners of our agente in another sense too. The Cuba
episode leaves the strong impression that CIA is not able to control ita
own low-level operatives. While the CIA people in Washington are mon
of exceptionally high quality, the men attracted to field jobs are some
times tough and even vicious people motivated by drives of their ow
and not necessarily in pelitical or even moral sympathy with the purpos
of the operation. Such actions as locking up the Revelationary Counci
such enterprises as Operation 40 in Miami where CIA agents reportech
trained Cubans in methods of torture, such opisodes as the detention and
third degree reportedly administered to Dr. Rodolfa Nodal Tarets and
16 other democratic Cubans this February -- all these suggest that things
go on under CIA sponsorship with which CLA in Washington to only dierly
acquainted.

H49061 Docid: 32622644 Page. 7

OLL

7. ...
It has meant too the the State Department, often apprised of an
operation only in its ater stages, is under great pressure to
endorse the operatie, as already mounted because of the alleged
evil consequences a exercising a veto. I well remember Tom
Mann's remark the way the decision was made to go ahead on Cuba:
"I would never have isvored initiating this operation; but, since it
has gone as far as it has, I do not think we can risk calling it off. "
Moreover, at a time when there is incrossing premium en activism,
State, when it questions CLA operations or initiatives, casts itself in
a prissy, sissy, negative rods. The advocate of clandestine activities
seems 'tough' and realistics the opponent has to invoke such intangibles
as the reputation of the United States, world public opinion, "What
do we say in the United Nations?", etc., and seems hopelessly
idealistic, legalistic and 'soft.'

The result of CIA's Landtiative in covert political operations has been
to create situations shich have forced policy on the State Department.
This was not the original idea behind CIA. As Allen Dulles wrote
in his 1947 memorandum to the Senate Armed Services Committee,
"The Central Intelligence Agency should have nothing to do with policy."
Yet, in the years siace, CIA has, in effect, 'made' policy in many
parts of the world. A number of governments still in power know
that they have even tren targets of CIA attempts at overthrow -- not
a state of mind calculated to stininlate friendly feelings toward the
United States. Indonesia, of course, is a prime szampis.

This experience suggests that the present system by which CLA notifica
State of a projected covert operation is inadequate te protect US
Interests. There must be some means by which State can be informed
of such operations at an early enough stage to affect the conception
and preliminary planning of the operation. Otherwise CIA will con-
tinue to confront State with propositions having potential impact on
foreign policy but at too late a point to subject that impact to reason-
able control.

3. The Controlled American Source (CAS) represents a particular
aspect of CLA's encroachment on policy-making functione. CIA.today
has nearly as many people under official cover overseas as State --
3900 to 3700. About 1500 of these are under State Department covar

мы 10061 nootd 32622644 Page 8

(the other 2200 are resumably under military or other nen-State
official cover). Orginally the use of State Department cover for
CLA personnel was supposed to be strictly limited and temporary.
The Ealles-Corrsa-ackson report stated in 1948, "The CIA should
not use State Department cover as a simple answer to all its problenia,
but should proceed to develop its own outside cover and eventually in
this way and through: tzcreased efficiency of its overseas personnel,
find a way to tempe: its dersands upon the State Department." Non-
theless CIA has stently locreased its requisitions for official cover.

There are several wasons vary CLA has abandoned its original intentio
of developing systems of private cover. It is easier to arrange cover
through State; it is less expensive, it is quicker, it facilitates tha
security of operations as well as of communications; it insures a
picasanter life for the CIA people. But the effect is to further the
CIA encroachment on the traditional functions of State.

In some missions, I understand, CAS personnel outnumbers regular
State Department personnel. In the American Embassy in Vienns,
out of 20 persons listed in the October 1960 Foreign Service List Re
being in the Political Section, 16 are CAS personnel; of the 31 officers
listed as engaging in reporting activities, over half are CAS. Of the
13 officers listed in the Political Section in our Embassy in Chile,
11 are CAS. On the day of President Kennedy's Inauguration 47 percent
of the political officers serving in United States Embassies were CA5.
Sometimes the CIA mission chief has been in the country longer, bas
more money at his disposal, wields more influence (and is abler) than
the Ambassador. Citen be bas direct access to the local Prime
Minister. Sometimes (as during a critical period in Laos) he pursued
a different policy from that of the Ambassador. Also he is generally
well known locally as the CIA representative. !

In the Paris Embassy today, there are 128 CIA poople. CIA in Paris
has long since begun to move into areas of political reporting normally
occupied by State. The CIA men doing overt internal political reporti
outnumber those in the Embassy's political section by 10-2. Cines
even sought to monopelise contact with certain French political perecaiz
ties, among them the President of the National Assembly. CIA C
the top floor of the Faris Embassy, a fact well known locally; and on
:
NW 49061 DocId: 32622644 Page 9

the night of the Generals' revolt in Algeria, passers-by noted
with amusement the the top floor was ablase with lights. (I am
Laformed that Ambassador Cavin was able to secure entrance that
night to the CIA off: es only with difficulty.)

CLA is apparently Dos firmly committed to the CAS approach as a
permanent solution or its problems. It is pressing to have CLA
people given the rank of Counselor. Before State loses control of
more and more of its presumed overseas personnel, and before СА
becomes permanentiy integrated into the Foreign Service, it would
seem important (a) to assure every ambassador the firm control
over the local CAS station nominally promised in the NSC Directive
of January 19, 1961, and (b) to review the current CAS situation with
an eye to a steady reduction of CAS personnel.

4. Paramilitary warfare, I gather, is regarded in some quarters
as a purely technical matter, easily detachabis from policy and there-
fore a proper function of the Department of Defense. Yet there is
almost no CIA function more peculiarly dependent on the politica!
context than paramilitary warfare.

us.
There are several reasons for this. For one thing, a paramilitary
operation is in its nature a large and attributable operation and therely.
as suggested above, clashes with the presuppositions of our open
society. (These considerations need not apply, however, to the
training of, say, the South Vietnamese in guerrilla tactics er to the
suppert of already existing guerrilla activitisa,) For ansther, the
moral and political price of direct paramilitary failure is acute for
Communists, when they stimulate paramilitary activity, are
doing what the world expects from them; when we do it, we appear
to betray our own prodessed principles and therefore cannot afford to
compound delinquency by defeat. Moreover, as the recent Algerian
episode showed, once we convince the world that we are committed to a
paramilitary endeavor, we will be blamed for all sorts of things. And,
as the recent tractors-for-prisoners episode showed, when we do send
men to possible death, we cannot lightly write them off and close the
books. The Communists, on the other hand, have no scruples about
liquidating a losing show,
:
NW 49061 DocTd: 32622644 Page 10

:
SECRET

10.
Moreover, guerrilla warfare is fought, much more than military
men ordinarily realize, in an ideological context. The guerrilla
succeeds when his program enlists grassroots supports and it is
very difficult indeed to beat him when the countryside is with hirn.
Van Mook told General Marshall in 1946 not to worry about the
guerrillas in Indonesia; "we are sanding 50,000 men out there
and will clean the situation up in the three months." Marshall,
who had had experience fighting guerrillas in the Philippines,
replied, "It won't be so easy. You will find that they will bleed
you to death." Cyprus and Algeria illustrate the difficulty of over-
comeing guerrilla resistance through sheer weight of military force.
:
-
Serious guerrilla movements have been defeated only three times since
the end of the Second Worid var: in Greece, because Tite's defectica
closed the corthara vorder; in the Philippines; and in Malaya.
the last two cases the guerrilla resistance ended because of the
combination of political and military countermeasures. The struggle
in Malaya, as Field Marshal Templer understood (and said), was for
the minds and hearts of the people; it therefore involved not only
paranmilitary operations but a vast educational program, organisation
of trade unions, political reform and an offer of national independence.
If the guerrilla's power lies in his revolutionary program, the answer
lies in part in meeting the needs which enable the guerrilla to rouse
the countryside. "Without a political goal," wrote ise Tee-tung,
"guerrilla warfare must fail, as it must if its political objectives do.
not coincide with the aspirations of the people and if their sympathy.
cooperation and assistance cannot be gained," He added, "Do we
want the support of the masses? If we do, we must go among the
masses; arouse them to activity; concern caresives with their weal
and woe.."
For these reasons, paramilitary warfare cannot be considered as
primarily a military weapon. It is primarily a political weapon and
must therefore be subjected to close and careful political oversight.
It probably should be retained in a reconstituted CIA rather than
transferred to Defense.

DocId:32622644 Pade 11.
RET

11.
..
5. How to Esta dish Policy Control? Here I wonder whether the
British experience :ight not be of value. The notable feature of the
Eritish intelligence system is the determination to keep clandestine
activity under etric Foreign Office control. This control is achieved
in a number of ways
:
a) Secret telligence Service (MI-6) itself operates under
the direction of the Joint Intelligence Committee, which has a
Foreign Office chairman (until recently Sir Patrick Dean, who
is now the Eritica representative at the UN) and which includes
the Service Intelligence directors and representatives of the
Colonial Office and the Commonwealth Relations Office as well
as the Chief of S.

b) basic poltical warfare directives are eriginated, not
by SIS, but by the Information Research Department in the
Foreign Office, often in consultation with an interdepartmental
Working Group co International Communist Fronts, and under
the ultimate control of the Superintending Under-Secretary of
the Permanent ader-Secretary's Department in the Foreign
Office.

c) SIS covert political action campaigns must not only con-
form to Foreign Office directives but must be cleared with the
appropriate Foreign Office geographical desko.

d) working groups under IRD chairmanship govern opera-
tions in special areas, such as, for example, Sine-Soviet rela-
tions or the World Youth Festival.
:o) a Foreign Office Staff Liaison Officer ofte sent to the 815
Chief, and Foreign Office officials serve tours of duty in SIS
sections.

All these devices might be adapted for use by the State Departement.
Organizationally, this would mean that the intelligence agency would
retain operational autonomy but that its operations would be at all
points subject to State Departmeat clearance -- a clearance to be
NW 49061 DocId: 32622644 Page: 12
E
:

ke
12.
enforced by directives, by State Department chairmanship of
working groupe, and by the infiltration of State Department
personnel into the felligence agency.

Cbviously this set would not succeed, however, unless the
State Departmeat itself were prepared to overcome its inbred
hatito of diffusion, egativism and delay and to take a firm and
purpossful grip on ne situation.

IV. Cperations and intelligence
The relationship between operations and intelligence raises partion-
larly perplexing questions. 'Intelligence' includes two separable
activities: clandestine cellection; and research, analysis and
evaluation. The first deals with that small portion of raw intelli-
gence procured by secret means (Mr. Dulles estimated in 1947 that
"a proper analysis of the intelligence obtainable by...overt,
normal, and aboveboard means would supply us with over 80 percent,
I should estimate, of the information required for the guidance of our
national policy"); the second invelves the colistion and interpretatior:
of all forms of intelligence, however obtained and the production of
estimates.

Under the British system, clandestine collection is entrusted to the
Secret Intelligence Service. The research, analysis and estimating
function is located in the Foreign Office Research Department.

Under the American system, CIA has responsibility for beth
clandestine collection and research and analysis. The State Depart-
ment's Bureau of Intelligence and Research siso hes ressarch and
analysis responsibilities, but, in practice, CIA has established
control over the machinery for producing antional estimates in such
a way as to reduce State's contribution to subraitting its viewe to CLA
for acceptance or rejection, in other words, where in Great Britain
the Foreign Office plays the coordinating role in the intelligence fiabi,
in the United States that role has been assumed by CIA,
NW 49061 DocId:32622644 Page 13

SECRET
13,
The argument agains: incorporating the research and estimate
function in State was made by Dulles in 1947: "For the proper
judging of the situation in any foreign country it is important that
Information should processed by an agency whose duty it is to
weigh facts, and to araw conclusions from these facts, without
having either the facts or the conclusions warped by the inevitable
and even proper proudices of the men whose duty it is to determine
policy and who, havis-g once determined a policy, are too likely to
be blind to any facts which might tend to prove the policy to be
faulty."
..
Precisely the same argument can be used with equal effect against
the incorporation of the research and estimate function in CIA
1.e.. if intelligence is too closely connected with operations, then
those committed to particular operation will tend to select out the
intelligence which validates the operation.
:
Obviously both arguments conclude in a case for the establishmeat ef
a fairly independent esearch and estimate group. But, if the R&
group is too independent, one runs into the opposite danger: that is,
that neither policy or operations will be subjected to adequate
intelligence checks.
The trouble with the Cuban operation, for example, was not that
intelligence and operations were combined, but precisely that the
Cuban operation evaded systematic intelligence judgment. The in-
salligence branch (DD) of CIA was never informed of the existence
of the Cuban operation. The Office of National Estimates was never
asked to comment on the assumption, for example, that discontent
had reached the potut in Cuba where a successful landing operation.
would provoke uprisings behind the lines and defections from the
Militia, In December and February, the Office of National Estimates
produced general appraisals of the Cuban situsties, but these were
whally independent of the Cuban operation. I gat
opinion had been invited, DDI would have given quite a different
estimate of the state of opinion in Cube from that on which the opera
tion was based. There existed, in short, the ridiculous situstion
gather that, f
:
NW 49061 DocId:32622644 Page 14

SEUNCI
:
14.
that knowledge of the Cuben operation, flaunted in Miami bars
by aay cumber of ice-level agents in the operations branch of CIA,
: was denied to even see top officials of the intelligence branch. The
Bureau of Intelligence and Research of the Department of State
know oven lass about the Cuban operation.

The problem, then, is to have an R&E group sufficiently independent
of both policy and cuerations to resist the pressure to make the case
for vested ideas and interests -- yet sufficiently close to be able to
subject projected operations or policies to the most intense and
searching scrutiny.
:
Where could this group be located? If the CIA were to become
subordinate to State, as ki-o is to the Foreign Office, then the .....
function might be vested in a coordinate subagency, somewhat inde-
pendent of both Stats and CLA, yet closely connected with both in dr
to-day operations. The R&F. subagency would receive intelligence
from CIA and from State, as well as from the services and, of course,
from public sources. It would represent, in effect, a fusion of CLA/D
and State/Intelligence and Research. might also take over certain
of the service functions now confided to CIA -- photographic interpre-
tation, biographical data, foreign broadcast monitoring, overt collec
tion, maps, etc. There might be in addition a Joint Intelligence Ecara
with representatives from all the intelligence agencies and with a
State Department or White House chairman

V. Conclusion.
The argument of this memorandum implies a fairly drastic rearrang
rment of our present intelligence set-up. It also implies the capacit
of the State Department to assume command of the situation and to co
so in an effective and purposeful way. If the State Department as a
present staffed is not capable of assuming effective command, this to
not. In my judgment, an argument against a rational reorganisationa
intelligence. It is an argument for a drastic overhaul of the State
Department.
:
:
:

LO
JW 49061 DocId:32622644 Page 15
:

SECRET
15.
The structure which would meet the criteria suggested in this
memorandum would e as follows:
:
:
1) The Star Department would be granted general
ciearance authority over all clandestine activity. This
raight be effectuated on the British model by the appointment
of a Deputy Unresecretary of State for Intelligence, who
would act for t! Secretary in these matters and who might
serve as chairrea of a Joint Intelligence Ecard.

2) The Jour. Intelligence Board would include repre-
sentatives from ail elemente in the intelligence community
and aleo from te bite House.

3) The operating branches of the present CIA would be
reconstituted under some blameless titis (the National Informa-
tion Servico). This new agency would be charged with responsi-
bility for clandestine collection, for covert political operations
and for paramilitary activities. It would submit projects to the
Deputy Undersecretary of State for Intelligence for clearance.
In general, the agency would bear somewhat the same relation.
ship to State as the Disarmament Administration and ICA
presently do.
:
4) A second sensi-independent agency would be sat up, again
bearing a blameless title (the Foreign Research Agency), coordi-
nate with the operations agency. This agency would be charged
with responsibility for collation and interpretation. would
include CLA/DDL the Bureau of Intelligence and Research in
State, and the various service functions now carried on by CLA
(photographic interpretation, biographical files, foreign broadcast
inonitoring, scientific intelligence, maps, overt collection, etc.).
It might well be located in the CIA building in McLean.
cc: The Attorney General
Mr. Bundy
Mr. Dungan
..
SECR
Arthur Schlesinger, jr.