2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10036-10086
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM:
TO :
TITLE: Views... Possible Coup D'Etat
DATE: 6/15/1962
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 196: Vietnam, 6/62. Box 2

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains Information affecting the National Defense of the United States, within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title: 18, U.S.C. Secs.
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which. In. any manner to an unauthorized: person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
V
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L.
COUNTRY
SOUTH VIETNAM
DUNGAN
REPORT NO. TDCS -3/513,973
SUBJECT
VIEWS OF COLONEL TON THAT XUNG KONYTHEN
GILDNER
POSSIBILITY OF A COUP D'ETAT PETERSEN
DATE DISTR. 15 JUNE 1962
SCHLESINGEIPRECEDENCE ROUTINE
DATE OF
INFO.
RETAIN LOR DESTROY
BELK
REFERENCES FILE IN
PLACE &
KOMER
DATE ACQ.
VIETNAM, SAIGON (3 JUNE 1962) AL
APPRAISAL
SEE BELOW
RASKIN FIELD REPORT NO. FVS-7484
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGSAREDEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
SOURCE AN AMERICAN OBSERVER (B); FROM COLONEL TON THAT XUNG.
APPR. IT IS PROBABLY TRUE THAT XUNG HOLDS THE VIEWS STATED; HOWEVER, THE CONTENTS OF.
THE STATEMENTS ARE CONSIDERED POSSIBLY TRUE.

1. COLONEL ΤΟΝ THAT XUNG, COMMANDER OF THE RANGER COMMAND, DURING A
3 JUNE 1962 LUNCHEON MEETING WITH TON THAT CHU, CHIEF OF PLEIKU PROVINCE, SAID
THAT THE PEOPLE OF SOUTH VIETNAM WERE GETTING TIRED OF THE PRESENT SITUATION AND
THAT SOME ACTION WAS GOING TO BE TAKEN TO CHANGE IT. THIS TIME, HOWEVER, THE
PLANS WERE NOT GOING TO BE COMMUNICATED TO THE AMERICANS BECAUSE THE UNITED
STATES, A BASICALLY LAW-ABIDING NATION, IS OPPOSED TO UNLAWFUL ACTS. SINCE A
COUP D'ETAT IS CONSIDERED BY AMERICAN OFFICIALS TO BE AN UNLAWFUL PROCESS, THE
US IS FORCED TO DISCOURAGE SUCH ACTIONS, AND THEREFORE, THE AMERICANS WILL NOT
HE NOTIFIED OF ANY FUTURE ACTIVITY ON THE PART OF THE VIETNAMESE TO UPSET THE
CURRENT REGIME UNTIL THE ACTION IS ACCOMPLISHED.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL
STATE.ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF "NSA NIC USIA OCI ONE OCR LORR
EXO
VILF
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT ELEGRAM

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL TDCS-3/513,973
IN
PAGE EWO
2. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV MAAG AID CINCPAC
ARPAC PACFLT PACAF.
END OF MESSAGE
?

YELVIM OK DEZДВОД
:
BADEBA
CI DRES
DRЙСУИ
27112 ИВА
:
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-ALL
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL
