176-10036-10079
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10079
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE: Possible severence of Cambodian
DATE: 9/17/1962
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 196: Vietnam, 9/62. Box 2
---
TELEGRAM IN.ORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENG GRACENESTROY
RETAIN U
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Tille
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
CONFIDENTIAL
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
(When Filled In)

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM CAMBODIA.
REPORT NO. TDCS-3/522,837

SUBJECT POSSIBLE SEVERANCE OF CAMBODIAN-.
SOUTH VIETNAMESE DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS
DATE DISTR. 17 SEPTEMBER 1962

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE SLUTCH BUNDI
DUNGAN
DATE OF INFO. MID-SEPTEMBER 1962. REFERENCES KAYSEN
INLDYSEI
PLACE & VIETNAM, SAIGON (14 SEPTEMBER 1962). PETERSEN
DATE ACO. SCHLESINGER
APPRAISAL 3 FIELD REPORT NO. FVS045LUB
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE
SOURCE A SENIOR OFFICIAL (B) IN THE GENERAL CONFEDERATION OF VIETNAMESE LABOBINSON
KLEIN
KOMER
RASKIN
SAUNDERS

1. LE VAN DONG, FORMER MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, SAID ON
14 SEPTEMBER 1962 THAT HE HAS BEEN ADVISED BY A RELIABLE SOURCE
IN CAMBODIA THAT THE ROYAL CAMBODIAN GOVERNMENT /RKG/IS
PLANNING TO SEVER RELATIONS WITH SOUTH VIETNAM. THE DECISION
IS TO BE FORMALIZED AT A CABINET MEETING ON EITHER 19 OR 20
SEPTEMBER, AT WHICH TIME THE RKG MINISTER OF NATIONAL DEFENSE
WILL REQUEST THE SEVERANCE OF DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS.

2. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV MAAG USOM
CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF 9TH FIELD STATION.

CONFIDENTIAL
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION. CONTROLS
END OF MESSAGE
GROUP I
Excluded from automaht
downgrading and
declasufication

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS -SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OCI ONE OCR: ORR 081 00 ΕΧΟ
STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM
5-62 1Ka OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
(15-2
