176-10037-10120
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10037-10120
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files: Robert W. Komer
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE: CIA Information Telegram
DATE: 12/00/1963
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 430: Kennedy, Reactions to Death
Miscellaneous, 11/22/63-6/18/64. Box 5

TELEGRAM IN ORMATION REP RT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs.
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET
(When Filled In) NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY SOVIET BLOC / YUGOSLAVIA REPORT NO. TDCS-3/566,658
ALEXANDER
SUBJECT COMMENTS OF YUGOSLAV. AND BLOC DIPLOMATI DATE DISTR. 6 DECEMBER 1963
ON THE PROBABLE EFFECT OF KENNEDY ASSASGEMAN
BELK
SINATION ON EAST-WEST RELATIONS DUNGAN PRECEDENCE ROUT
BRUBECK
DATE OF INFO. 25-29 NOVEMBER 1963. LECKEL
PLACE & DATE ACQ. GREECE, ATHENS (28 NOVEMBER, 2 DECEMBER 1963)
APPRISAL 2 (THAT STATEMENTS ARE ACCURATELY REPORTED?) FIELD REPORT NO. EKA 4230
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGSAARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
SOURCE A GREEK POLITICAL OBSERVER (B) WITH CONTAGINGMONG BLOC DIPLOMATS IN ATHENS,
FROM THE DIPLOMATS MENTIONED BELOW-SMITH, WM. Y.

FOLLOWING ARE EXAMPLES OF (PORTION GARBLED-BEING SERVICED) BEING TAKEN BY SOVBLOC
AND YUGOSLAV DIPLOMATS IN GREEK CIRCLES:
1. ON 25 NOVEMBER 63, YUGOSLAV AMBASSADOR TO GREECE PЕКО
DAPCEVIC EXPRESSED HOPE THAT ASSASSINATION OF KENNEDY WOULD NOT
CHANGE THE INTERNATIONAL ATMOSPHERE, ADDING THAT HE IS CERTAIN
SOVIET UNION IS WELL DISPOSED TO CONTINUE FRIENDLY CONTACTS WITH
WEST. DAPCEVIC SAID THERE HAS BEEN "A GREAT PSYCHOLOGICAL CHANGE"
ON PART OF SOVIET PEOPLE IN PAST FEW YEARS FROM EARLIER ATTITUDE
THAT ALL AMERICANS AND PARTICULARLY AMERICAN GOVERNMENT ARE WAR
MONGERS TO CURRENT THINKING THAT AMERICANS, LIKE SOVIETS,

SECRET CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR DO EXL
STATE/DIR
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
10-62 1K

SECRET CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
(When Filled In) NO FOREIGN DISSEM TDCS-3/566,658

REALLY WANT PEACE. ZENITH OF THIS CHANGE CAME WHEN UNITED STATES
ANNOUNCED IT WAS WILLING TO SELL WHEAT TO SOVIET UNION, ACCORDING
TO DAPCEVIC, THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MADE TREMENDOUS IMPACT ON SOVIET
PEOPLE AND THEIR FEELING IS NOW SO FAVORABLE TOWARD AMERICANS
THAT EVEN IF SOVIET LEADERSHIP WANTED TO REVERSE THIS FEELING,
IT COULD NOT EASILY DO SO.
2. ON 26 NOVEMBER, CZECH FIRST SECRETARY VAKLAV SVESTKA
STATED THAT CZECH EMBASSY IN ATHENS HAD NOT YET RECEIVED REACTION
OF PRAGUE TO THE ASSASSINATION, BUT FEELING OF CZECH EMBASSY
PEOPLE IN ATHENS WAS THAT US POLICY WOULD NOT CHANGE MATERIALLY,
SVESTKA EXPRESSED CONCERN THAT ASSASSINATION WILL HAVE DELAYING
ACTION ON IMPROVED EAST-WEST RELATIONS: UNDER KENNEDY THINGS
WERE MOVING QUICKLY TOWARDS UNDERSTANDING, AND CHANGE OF PRESIDENT
NOW WILL OF NECESSITY SLOW DOWN THE COURSE OF EVENTS BECAUSE
"PERSONAL FACTOR" IS NOW MISSING. KENNEDY HAD DEVELOPED CONTACTS
WITH SOVIET LEADERSHIP AND ACHIEVED ACCEPTANCE OF SOVBLOC (PORTION
GARBLED) *P POPULATIONS IS AS PEACE LOVING MAN, JOHNSON HAS TO ESTABLISH
THIS FOR HIMSELF NOW, AND IT WILL TAKE SOME TIME.
3. ON 29 NOVEMBER, SOVIET FIRST SECRETARY VITALIY NOVIKOV
STATED THAT SOVIETS DO NOT EXPECT IMMEDIATE CHANGE IN US FOREIGN
POLICY BECAUSE WITH ONLY ONE YEAR BEFORE ELECTIONS JOHNSON AS
NON-ELECTED PRESIDENT IS NOT LIKELY TO CHANGE BASIC KENNEDY

SECRET CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SECRET
(When Filled In)
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
TDCS-3/566,658

POLICIES, SOVIETS ARE ANXIOUS, HOWEVER, OVER FUTURE EAST-WEST
RELATIONS. ASSASSINATION CLEARLY SHOWS RADICAL RIGHT-WING ELEMENTS
ARE STRONG, HAVE SUPPORTERS IN LOCAL POLICE AND POLITICAL CIRCLES
AND ARE WILLING TO FIGHT FOR THEIR IDEALS. IT ALSO REVEALS,
NOVIKOV SAID, STRENGTH OF REACTION IN AMERICA TO KENNEDY POLICIES
SOVIET PEOPLE FEAR THAT RIGHT-WING WILL BE DOMINANT.

4. ON 29 NOVEMBER, RUMANIAN AMBASSADOR MIRCEA BALANESCU SAID
HE WAS CERTAIN THERE WOULD BE NO CHANGE IN BLOC POLICY VIS-A-VIS
WEST AND ANY INCREASE IN TENSION WOULD BE RESULT OF CHANGED
AMERICAN POLICY.
5. FIELD. DISSEM STATE ARMY NAVY AIR EUCOM CINCNELM CINCSOUTH
(PERSONAL).
6. *HEADQUARTERS COMMENT:
PAGE
MISSING PORTIONS WILL BE DISSEMINATED ONLY IF
THEY MATERIALLY AFFECT THE SENSE OF THIS REPORT.

SECRET

END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
