2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10116
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE: CIA Information Telegram
DATE: 7/17/1963
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 198: Vietnam,7/1/1963-7/20/63. Box 2

---

TELEGRAM IN ORMATION REFORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This-material-contains information "aflecting the National Defense of the United States within "States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Titio $18. IBU.S.C
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation, revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by l

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-ON-FI-DE-N-TI-A-L
NO. FOREIGN DISSEM
COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM
REPORT NO. TDCS-3/553,724
SUBJECT POSSIBLE CHANGE IN GOVERNMENT OF
VIETNAM FOREIGN POLICY IN LIGHT OF
APPOINTMENT OF AMBASSADOR LODGE
DATE DISTR. 17 JULY 1963

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
DATE OF MID-JULY 1963
REFERENCES IN 80437
INFO.
PLACE & VIETNAM, SAIGON (15 JULY 1963)
DATE ACO.
APPRAISAL SEE BELOW
FIELD REPORT NO. FVS-9314
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
SOURCE: A. HIGH-LEVEL VIETNAMESE SECURITY OFFICIAL (C) WITH EXTENSIVE CONTACTS AMONG
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS

APPR IT IS PROBABLY TRUE THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM HAS RECALLED SOME OF ITS
FOREIGN REPRESENTATIVES; HOWEVER, WHETHER THE REASON IS TO DEFINE A NEW
SED FOREIGN POLICY IN LIGHT OF AMBASSADOR LODGE'S APPOINTMENT IS UNKNOWN
HEADQUARTERS COMMENT PARAGRAPH 2

WELL NET21KECUBY MID JULY 1963 PRESIDENT. NGO DINH DIEM WAS CONSIDERABLY DISTURBED

ES OVER THE DESIGNATION OF HENRY CABOT LODGE, JR. AS AMBASSADOR TO THE GOVERNMENT

OF VIETNAM (GVN) THE APPOINTMENT SUGGESTED TO THE PRESIDENT THAT THE UNITED
LEVISTATES PLANNED TO WIELD A BIG STICK AND THE GVN RECALLED A NUMBER OF ITS

END DIPLOMATS FOR CONSULTATION. AMONG THEM WERE THE REPRESENTATIVES IN KUALA

AVE LUMPUR AND SINGAPORE NEW DELHI, DJAKARTA, TOKYO, RANGOON, AND SENEGAL AND

VAE SEVERAL OTHER AFRICAN NATIONS THE REPRESENTATIVES WERE RECALLED OSTENSIBLY

SO THAT THEY COULD ATTEND A SEMINAR ON THE STRATEGIC HAMLET PROGRAM WHICH
WE WOULD ENABLE THEM TO EXPLAIN THE PROGRAM ABROAD: HOWEVER, THE GVN ACTUALLY
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS TOR ГОРС
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NO FOREIGN DISSEM
STATE INR DIA ARMY ACSI NAVYAIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC
STATE/DIR
GROUP
Excluded, fram automatic
AID USIA OCI ONE OCR
ORR
downgrading, o
declassification
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM1Kb OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS,

---

CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NO FOREIGN DISSEM TDCS-3/553,724 IN 80437
PAGE TWO

YJWANTED TO DISCUSS ITS POSITION IN REGARD TO THE BUDDHIST SITUATION AND TO
ATTEMPT TO DEFINE A NEW GVN FOREIGN POLICY IN THE LIGHT OF THE LODGE
ΑΡΡΟΙΝΤΜΕNT

9.2.1 HEADQUARTERS COMMENT TDCS-3/552,830 REPORTED THAT BUU HOI, GVN
AMBASSADOR TO THE IVORY COAST, MOROCCO, NIGERIA, UPPER VOLTA, AND SENEGAL
WAS EXPECTED IN SAIGON ON 15 JULY CS-3/533,307 REPORTED THAT NGO ĐỊNH NHU
HAD STATED AT AN INTERMINISTERIAL COMMITTEE ON STRATEGIC HAMLETS' MEETING
THAT THE MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS HAD FAILED TO ENROLL HIS PERSONNEL IN
THE COURSE AT THE THI NGHE STRATEGIC HAMLET CENTER, AND THAT IF NECESSARY,
THE MINISTER SHOULD RECALL HIS PERSONNEL FROM EMBASSIES ABROAD IN ORDER TO
MEET THIS REQUIREMENT

3. FIELD DISSEM STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV MAAG AID USIA
2ND AIR DIVISION 9TH FIELD STATION CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF

COARBINETAL CREIOTVIS END OF MESSAGE
ZOBCE Y KICH-TEAST 
 END OF MESSAGE (C) MIJI EXВТАЕ СООД
YVE
ЛАЗНАЯТЧА ATELOW VICON
27일
СMI
biero 325
(12 A 1003)
VELEKEMCER
YELEKEMCER
И 80
VEECIADEL CATENEOS FODCE
ALREW ECBТСЯ БОГТСК В ГІСНІ СЕ
3029тага сRYWCE TE COAFYDENT O
ΣΟΛΙΑ ΑΞΕΣΚΥΝ
CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
HOITAOP22AJO
NO ELENIGN DICEN
C=O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NO FOREIGN DISSEM
CENLEVT HAITFIORACE VACHCA
