176-10038-10032 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10038-10032
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

ORIGINATOR: DOS
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: Embtel 660 (Saigon) Re: Task Force on Vietnam
DATE: 11/16/1961
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS:
CURRENT STATUS:
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: NSF: Countries: Vietnam, General, 11/16/61-11/17/61, box 195. Box 8

***

INCOMING TELEGRAM
SANITIZED VERSIO
NLX-75-92 3

Department of State

SECRET

Control: 9439
Rec'd: NOV. 16, 1961
3:50 a.m. 019

FE Action
Info
SS
G
SP
L
H
SO
EUR
AID
PX
IOP
INR
CIA
OSD
ARMY
AIR
NAVY
A
DC
RMR

FROM: SAIGON
TO: Secretary of State
NO: 660, NOVEMBER 16; 11 AM

SECTION DEPARTMENT 660, INFORMATION CINCPAC POLAD 2683

LIMIT DISTRIBUTION
TASK FORCE VN

REF: EMBTEL 0627
OPPORTUNITIES FOR EXPLOITATION OF NEW MANAGEMENT OF NATIONAL
POLICE AND SECURITY SERVICE (COLONEL NGUYEN VAN Y VICE GENERAL
NGUYEN VAN (LA)) FALL INTO TWO GENERAL FIELDS, INTELLIGENCE AND
NATIONAL POLICE. BOTH CAS AND USOM HAVE FOR CONSIDERABLE TIME
BEEN STYMIED BUT WITH CHANGE BELIEVE REAL PROGRESS CAN BE
MADE. THIS WILL REQUIRE WORKING OUT OF DETAILED PROGRAMS FOR
ADDITIONAL ASSISTANCE TRAINING, ETC., AND ADDITIONAL U.S.
PERSONNEL FOR NECESSARY LIAISON AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT.
AS HAS ALREADY PROPOSED TO IT'S HEADQUARTERS DEVELOPMENT OF
NATIONAL COMMUNIST PARTY PENETRATION SERVICE TO SERVE AS
"SPECIAL BRANCH" OF SURETE, WHOSE CHARTER AT PRESENT COVERS
BOTH SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES AND ORDINARY INVESTIGATIONS.
THIS "SPECIAL BRANCH" WOULD HAVE REPRESENTATIVES AT PROVINCE
LEVELS AND BE MANAGED THROUGH REGIONAL DIRECTORATES. AT EACH
REGIONAL DIRECTORATE, CAS WOULD PROPOSE ASSIGN AT LEAST ONE
CAS OFFICER TO MAINTAIN CLOSE LIAISON AND COLLABORATION.
CONCERT WOULD BE FULL INTEGRATION HIS EFFORT INTO THE VN
VIETNAMESE EFFORT. THIS WOULD REQUIRE FOLLOWING CAS COMMITMENT:

A. CAS OFFICERS FOR DIRECTORATES AT HUE, NHA TRANG, BAN ME
THUOT, BIEN HOA, SAIGON/CHOLON, AND CAN THO, AS WELL AS ALREADY

SECRET
REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS
PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED"

***

SECRET

-2- 660, NOVEMBER 16, 11 AM, FROM SAIGON

EXISTING PERSONNEL FOR LIAISON AT NATIONAL LEVEL. PERSONNEL
WOULD BE SUPPORTED BY NECESSARY INTERPRETERS, COMMUNICATIONS, ETC.

B. PROVISION OF INTELLIGENCE AND COMMUNIST PARTY PENETRATION
TRAINING TO VIETNAMESE OFFICER PERSONNEL OF NEW SPECIAL BRANCH,
TAKEN FROM EXPERIENCED SURETE OFFICERS.

C. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO GIVE PROVINCIAL SPECIAL BRANCH
OFFICERS FUNDS TO OPERATE AGENT NETWORKS IN PROVINCES.
EXACT SUM NOT YET DETERMINED BUT WILL BE SEEN TO BE SUBSTANTIAL
BY MULTIPLYING NUMBER OF PROVINCES (38) BY REASONABLE MONTHLY
SUM FOR EACH PROVINCIAL REPRESENTATIVE TO ENABLE HIM HIRE
AGENTS AND PAY OTHER OPERATIONAL EXPENSES.

3. USOM EQUALLY DETERMINED PROSECUTEE POTENTIAL FOR GREATER
COLLABORATION FOR DEVELOPMENT OF NATIONAL POLICE STRUCTURE WITH
REGULAR INVESTIGATORY FUNCTIONS OF SURE TE, TO PROVIDE EVIDENCE
ENFORCEMENT MECHANISM ON EFFECTIVE NATIONAL BASIS TO BOLSTER
GOVERNMENT AUTHORITY THROUGHOUT COUNTRY, AND THUS CONTRIBUTE
TO CONTRIBUTE CRIME -- DISORDER, OVERT COMMUNIST ACTION, ETC.
THIS WOULD COMPRISE OVER-ALL DEVELOPMENT USOM POLICE, SURETE AND
RELATED INTERNAL SECURITY SERVICES TO INCLUDE:

A CONSOLIDATION OF CIVIL POLICE FUNCTIONS UNDER THE SECRETARY
OF STATE FOR INTERIOR.

B. A DELINEATION OF FUNCTIONS AS THEY PERTAIN TO THE SEPARATE
ELEMENTS OF PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICES.

C. THE ADOPTION OF A REALISTIC TRAINING PROGRAM, GEARED
TO AN APPROPRIATE PROGRAM OF COMMODITY PROCUREMENT.

D. THE DEVELOPMENT OF AN EFFECTIVE PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICE.
USOM ENVISIONS DEVELOPMENT BASED UPON MUTUAL AGREEMENT AND
UPON RECIPIENTS'S ABILITY TO ABSORB INTRODUCTION OF NEW
CONCEPTS.

4. THIS BEING MADE TASK FORCE MATTER DUE MY CONVICTION IT IS
SUBSTANTIAL WE MOVE FORWARD IN BOTH ABOVE FIELDS TO MAXIMUM
DEGREE POSSIBLE, TAKING FULL ADVANTAGE OF WHAT APPARENTLY

SECRET

***

SECRET

-3- 660, NOVEMBER 16, 11 AM, FROM SAIGON

IS REAL NEW BREAK IN SITUATION. URGE FULLEST SUPPORT FROM TASK
FORCE LEVEL AND ABOVE OF THESE SUGGESTIONS FOR ACTIVITY BY
CAS AND USOM, AND SUPPORT IN WASHINGTON FOR NECESSARY PERSONNEL
AND BUDGET ADDITIONS WHICH MAY BE INVOLVED.

NOLTING

MM
SECRET
