176-10036-10085
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10085
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE: Vietnamese Communist Analysis of Efforts
DATE: 6/13/1962
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 196: Vietnam, 6/62. Box 2

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
7
RETAIN OR DESTR

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains information. affecting the National Dafensa of the United States within the moaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18 U.S.C. Secs.
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL 8MITH BUNI
DUNGAN
GILDNER
COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM REPORT NO. TDCS -3/513,760- KAYSEN
:
DATE DISTR. 13 JUNE 1962
SUBJECT VIETNAMESE COMMUNIST ANALYSIS OF EFFECTS
OF INCREASED US MILITARY AID TO
GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM
DATE OF 5 MAY 1962
INFO..
:
PLACE & VIETNAM, SAIGON (20 MAY 1962)
DATE ACO-IT IS PROBABLY TRUE THAT THIS IS AN ACCURATE
APPRAISAL TRANSLATION OF A GENUINE COMMUNIST DOCUMENT
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
REFERENCES
FILE
IN
FIELD REPORT NO.
FVS-7504,
PETERSEN
SCHLESINGE
TAYLOR
BELK
FORDDOTAT
KOMER
RASKIN
SAUNDERS
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
SOURCE AN OFFICIAL (C) IN THE MINISTRY OF NATIONAL DEFENSE, FROM A SOURCE DESCRIBED
AS HEAD OF AN INTELLIGENCE NET REPORTING DIRECTLY TO THE DEPUTY. MINISTER OF
NATIONAL DEFENSE.
Bundy
1. SET FORTH BELOW IS A TRANSLATION OF AN ANALYSIS OF THE PRESENT SITUATION
IN SOUTH VIETNAM (SVN) AS VIEWED BY THE VIETNAMESE COMMUNISTS (VC). THE AUTHOR
OF THE ANALYSIS, WHICH WAS WRITTEN IN EARLY MAY 1962, IS A VC COMPANY COMMANDER
IN BA XUYEN PROVINCE..
:
::
2. THE REVOLUTION IN SVN IS PASSING NOW INTO THE PREPARATORY PHASE FOR
A GENERAL OFFENSIVE TO LIBERATE IT (SVN) AND SET UP A PEOPLE'S UNION DEMOCRATIC
GOVERNMENT, BUT AMERICAN INTERVENTION HAS POSTPONED THAT PHASE. THE US' HALF
SUCCESS IS DUE TO USE OF COUNTERGUERRILLA TACTICS, BUT MOPPING UP OPERATIONS WILL
LEAD TO DEFEAT BECAUSE (INDISCRIMINATE) KILLINGS WILL PUSH THE PEOPLE TOWARD THE
REVOLUTIONARY PARTY. IN THE FUTURE THE FRONT FOR THE LIBERATION OF SVN, WITH

STATE
VTF
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
ARMY/ACSI
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
::
NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF
NSA
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL
NIC USIA
OCI
ONE
GROUP 1
Excluded frem automatich
downgrading and
declassification
OCR ORR 00 AID DIA
EXO)
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL TDCS-3/513,760 IN
PAGE TWO
ITS HIGH-SACRIFICE SPIRIT AND ITS HATE-AMERICA IDEALS, WILL GET. 90 PERCENT SUPPORT
FROM THE PEOPLE. ON THE MILITARY SIDE, THE US HAS USED ULTRA-MODERN MECHANIZED
WEAPONS TO DESTROY ARMED UNITS BY TACTICS OF AREA PACIFICATION. THUS HARRASSED,
THE VC ARE NEVER SECURE. THEIR POLICIES MUST NOW AIM AT THE INTERNAL SITUATION AND
AT UPHOLDING THE HARDSHIP-BEARING SPIRIT. MEANWHILE, VC ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATIONS
DO NOT YET EXIST, BUT THE PEOPLE HAVE BEEN INSPIRED BY THE REVOLUTIONARY SPIRIT OF
THE PARTY. ECONOMICALLY, VC AGRARIAN REFORMS HAVE SOLVED THE LAND PROBLEM FOR THE
PEASANTS AND NOW CONSTITUTE THE FOOD SOURCE FOR THE TROOPS AND CADRES. (SOURCE
COMMENT. VC AGRARIAN REFORMS" REFER TO THE DE FACTO LAND EXPROPRIATIONS CONDUCTED
BY THE VIET. MINH DURING THE 1945-54 WAR.) FOREST AND SEA RESOURCES ARE STILL
SECONDARY AND BRING IN ONLY SOME SUPPORT IN THE FORM OF TAXES. THE VC ARE MEETING
GREAT DIFFICULTIES AT THE PRESENT TIME, BUT THE SVN PROBLEM WILL BE SOLVED BY
INTERNATIONAL POLITICS AND INTERNAL MILITARY MEASURES, I.E. STRONG ATTACKS. (SOURCE
COMMENT. THE SOLUTION THROUGH "INTERNATIONAL POLITICS" REFERS TO THE BELIEF THAT,
IF THE VC CAN MAINTAIN THE PRESENT RELATIVE STALEMATE LONG ENOUGH, THE US WILL TIRE
*:
OF THE STRUGGLE AND SEEK SOME KIND OF NEUTRALIST SOLUTION.)
4
3. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY. NAVY AIR USMACV MAAGAID CINCPAC PACAF
PACFLT ARPAC
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
END OF MESSAGE
:
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL
