176-10036-10051 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10051
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO:
TITLE: Central Intelligence Agency Information Report
DATE: 8/10/1963
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 48: Cuban Subjects: Exiles information
report. Box 1

SANITIZED MK-01.048.4.3.3
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
Culan exles
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs.
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
(When Filled In)
COUNTRY CUBA NICARAGUA
REPORT NO. TDCS -3/556,052
:
SUBJECT POSSIBLE ESTABLISHMENT OF A CUBAN DATE DISTR. 10 AUGUST 1963
EXILE BASE IN NICARAGUA
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
Ss
DATE OF
INFO. 24 JULY 1963
REFERENCES IN 97132
TDCS-3/555,529
PLACE &
DATE ACO. ENGLAND, LONDON (9 AUGUST 1963)
APPRAISAL 3
SOURCE
FIELD REPORT NO. OEL 35,970
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
OFFICIAL BRITISH SERVICE FROM A SOURCE DESCRIBED AS "WELL-KNOWN AND EXPERIENCED
IN REPORTING, PROBABLY RELIABLE, QUOTING ROMANI."
ON
1. IN PRIVATE CONVERSATION/24 JULY 63, SALVADOR ROMANI, REPRESENT-

ATIVE IN VENEZUELA OF CUBAN EXILE ORGANIZATION COMANDO UNIFICADO
DE LA LIBERACION EN CUBA (UNITED COMMAND OF CUBAN LIBERATION CULC),
CLAIMED THAT A SMALL NUMBER CUBAN EXILES HAD ALREADY MOVED FROM
MIAMI TO NICARAGUA. IN EXILE CIRCLES IT IS BELIEVED THIS ACTION
REFLECTS A PREVIOUS AGREEMENT BETWEEN PRESIDENT SOMOZA OF NICARAGUA
AND MANUEL ARTIME, SECRETARY GENERAL OF EXILE GROUP MOVIMIENTO DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MOVEMENT OF REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY
MRR). ROMANI DID NOT KNOW DETAILS OF AGREEMENT. IF IT ENTAILS
ESTABLISHMENT OF A LARGE-SCALE EXILE MILITARY BASE IN NICARAGUA,
SECRET
STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR
STATE/DIR
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
JCS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OC I ONE OCR ORR
FBI TREASURY I&NS COAST GUARD
GROUP 1
Excluded from automats
downgrading and
declassification
00. EXO
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
FORM
10-62 1K OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
(15-20)

SECRET
(When Filled In)
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
:
IN 97132
TDCS -3/556,052
1
PAGE 2

OTHER EXILE GROUPS WILL AWAIT REACTION OF UNITED STATES BEFORE
DECIDING THEIR OWN COURSE OF ACTION.
OF
2. NUCLEUS/SUCH A BASE WOULD BE DRAWN FROM THREE TO FOUR THOUSAND
OF
EXILES WHO, ACCORDING TO ROMANI, HAVE PREVIOUSLY RECEIVED MILATARY
TRAINING FROM MEMBERS/U.S. ARMED FORCES. ROMANI CLAIMED U.S.
TO
POLICY IS TO FERMENT INTERNAL RESISTANCE IN CUBA AND/STRENGTHEN THE
RESISTANCE BY INFILTRATION OF TRAINED COMMANDO GROUPS OF EXILES.
FOR THIS REASON THE U.S. CONTINUES/GIVE TACIT SUPPORT FOR TRAINING
OF EXILE MILITARY ORGANIZATIONS.
..
TO
3. ROMANI MADE FOLLOWING REVIEW OF POLICIES OF PRINCIPAL EXILE
PARTIES:
OF
(A) CULC IS CONCENTRATING ON DISSEMINATION/ANTI-CASTRO
PROPAGANDA IN CUBA TO PREPARE GROUND FOR INSURRECTION. IT FAVORS
INFILTRATION/SMALL MILITARY GROUPS BUT REJECTS A GENERAL INVASION.
OF
(B) JURE (JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA), LED BY MANUEL RAY, CONSIDERS THE
PRINCIPLE REQUIREMENT IS TO SECURE SUPPORT OF DISCONTENTED ELEMENTS
IN CUBAN MILITIA AND ARMED FORCES.
(C) ALLIANCE OF MRP (MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO POPULAR),
SECOND FRONT OF ESCAMBRAY AND ALPHA 66, SUPPORTS CONTINUATION OF HIT-

AND-RUN RAIDS ON CUBAN MAINLAND IN ORDER/MAINTAIN MORALE OF RESISTANCE
FORCES IN CUBA.
TO
THE.
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
:
SS

!
ECRET
When Filled: In
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
TDCS-3/556,052
IN 97132
PAGE 3
(D) SEVERAL GROUPS, INCLUDING UMC (UNIDADES MILITARES CUBANAS),
CLC (COMANDOS LIBRES DE CUBA) AND A SECTION OF MRR CONSIDER THAT ONLY
A GENERAL INVASION WILL OVERTHROW THE CUBAN REGIME.
OF
(E) FUR (FRENTE UNIDO REVOLUCIONARIO), LED BY AURELIANO
SANCHEZ ARANGO, IS WORKING PRIMARILY TO OBTAIN AGREEMENT/LATIN
AMERICAN GOVTS FOR COORDINATED POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC PRESSURE ON
BA
FIELD DISSEM: STATE, CINCLANT CINCSO.

END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
SS
