176-10036-10143 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10143
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM :
TO : 1
TITLE: CIA Information Report
DATE: 9/24/1963
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 200: Vietnam,9/22/63-10/6/63, CIA
Reports. Box 2

Sanitized vla PACSIS NCK-82-36 د
TELEGRAM IN.ORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains information: affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title. 18, U.S.C Secs.
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIEN DISSEMINO DISSEM ABROAD BACKGROUND USE ONLY

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM REPORT NO. TDCS DB-3/656,842
SUBJECT 1. NGO DINH NHU INTENTION TO DEAL WITH VC DATE DISTR. 24 SEPTEMBER 1963
2. ATTEMPTS OF PHẠM NGỌC THẠO TO TARRANGEYKES
AIR FORCE SUPPORT FOR A COUP D'ETAT PRECEDENCE ROUT INE

DATE OF 9-20 SEPTEMBER 1963 REFERENCES NI. 26062
INFO. : 1
PLACE & VIETNAM, SAIGON (22 SEPTEMBER 1963)
DATE ACO
APPRAISAL SEE BELOW FIELD REPORT NO. FVS 9684
SOURCE
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
A FIELD GRADE VIETNAMESE AIR FORCE OFFICER (F).
IMLEBATER VONALLED THAT HE HVD Веси „сомелесетио деуге

!!
APER: IT IS PROBABLY TRUE THAT THAO HAS PLANNED A COUP AND HAS SOUGHT VNAF
HOD SUPPORTAS REPORTED THE SUBSTANCE LOG THẠO STACKS WITH DIEM AND NHU CONCERNING
NHUS CONTACTS WITH THE VIET CONG AND NHU'S PLANS FOR MAJOR CHANGES IN THE SOUTH
1HYL: VIETNAMESE FECONOMY) CANNOT BE ACCURATELY JUDGEDOEITI IS DOUBTFUL THAT NHU WOULD
MAKE A DEAL WITH THE COMMUNISTS ALTHOUGH THAO IS APPARENTLY CONVINCED THAT NHƯ
1
A
OD IS CONSIDERING SUCH ACTION CITA IS NOT TRUC THAT AMBASSADOR LODGE TALKED WITH THAO
SUMMARY ON 20 SEPTEMBER 1963 LIEUTENANT COLONEL PHAM NGỌC
0410-2556ВЕК ИНО ЭПИНОМЕД ИНУЮ TWD ¥OKED MIN ARA HE HED
THAO, ASSIGNED TO THE PRESIDENCY AS AN INSPECTOR FOR THE STRATEGIC

HAMLET PROGRAM, SAID THAT HE HAD TALKED SEPARATELY WITH PRESIDENT
Коншизои мие СОМНОЙГА НЕГО BA CHAIT BЕКЛУЙТЕ НЕ СЕИЕВУГ БОВric
DIEM AND NGÔ ĐÌNH NHU ABOUT NHU'S CONTACTS WITH THE VIET CONG (VC)
ΚΟΙΤΑΜΡΟΛИ THE CAT QUOT, OAH OHW WOWA OF
BIHT TANT 0311938 CAHT
AND THẬT NHU HAD ADMITTED THAT HE WAS "CONSIDERING DEALING WITH
JM CORDYCE WITH THE AC LAYO 2019 THVL DIEN MY VROZBED VID DENVIIDED
THE COMMUNISTS." THAO CLAIMED THAT NHU WAS PLANNING MAJOR
THVL THE SEDUCE DIEMIKED ИНП ВЕСУЛGE THEX DEFІЕЛЕД 1HVL ини муг
CHANGES TO MAKE THE SOUTH VIETNAMESE ECONOMY MORE SIMILAR TO
TUS SAJ0909. УЛАМОВАЗа. Јалта за TH3012389 3КТ. ТАНТ Оאבינוכ
THE ECONOMIES OF COMMUNIST NATIONS.
THAO HAS SOLICITED VIETNAMESE
Элчисига. YEYED MIN HOA THE SCOTEN OTO e BEOWUDED BA LHE БЕЛЬГЕ
AIR FORCE (VNAF) SUPPORT FOR A COUP D'ETAT AGAINST THE DIEM REGIME.

CONFIDENTIAL CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEMINO DISSEN ABROAD BACKCROOND USE ONLY
ليم الدايت
M
C.I B
GROUP..
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification
STATE INR DIA ARMY/ACS NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF INSANIC XXXXXXXCONOCRXXXXXXXXXXXXXEXO
STATE/DIR
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
4-63
FORM 1Ka OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS,
(15-2

55
CONFIDENTIAL
(WHEN FILLED IN)
DVIS
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS"
NO FOREIGN DISSEMINO DISSEM ABROAD BACKGROUND USE ONLY
TDCS DB-3/656,842
THAO SAID THAT NHU'S PLANS TO DEAL WITH THE COMMUNISTS MUST BE
FORESTALLED
2
IN. 26062
PAGE
2
THAO-SAID THAT DURING THE WEEK. 9-15 SEPTEMBER-PRESIDENT DIEM
SUMMONED HIM AND ASKED HIM HOW HE, DIEM, WAS REGARDED BY THE PEOPLE.
THAO REPLIED THAT THE PRESIDENT WAS STILL PERSONALLY POPULAR BUT
THAT THE PEOPLE DISLIKED NHU BECAUSE THEY BELIEVED THAT NHU WAS
IN CONTACT WITH THE VC. THAO SAID THAT DIEM WAS ANGERED AND DEMANDED
TO KNOW WHO HAD TOLD THAO THIS INFORMATION. THAO REPLIED THAT THIS
OPINION WAS COMMONLY HELD BY CIVIL SERVANTS, THE GENERAL PUBLIC,
AND THE AMERICANS
:
こ
3.
ON 16 SEPTEMBER NHU SUMMONED THAO AND ASKED HIM WHY HE HAD
TOLD THE PRESIDENT OF NHU'S CONTACTS WITH THE VO THAO BELIEVED:
THẬT NHƯ HIMSELF HAD TOLDA AMERICAN: AMBASSADOR LODGE AND THAT LODGE D
!.
1.
HAD SUBSEQUENTLY INFORMED THAO NHU CALMED DOWN AND LATER IN THEСЕБИТЕ
INTERVIEW ADMITTED THAT HE HAD BEEN "CONSIDERING DEALING WITH
THE COMMUNISTS." THAO CLAIMED THAT HE TOLD NHU THAT NHUUDID NOTE
METO SEXC
UNDERSTAND THE COMMUNISTS AND THAT HE WOULD BE PLAYING A DANGEROUS
57
GAME IN DEALING WITH THEM. (FIELD COMMENT. AMBASSADOR LODGE HAS
LO
さいま
NEVER MET THẠO.)
4
THAO SAID THAT NHU PLANNED TO MAKE MAJOR CHANGES DURING THE
COMING MONTHS, INCLUDING THE NATIONALIZATION OF BANKS AND PRIVATE
ENTERPRISES, WHICH THAO SAID WOULD MAKE SOUTH VIETNAM'S ECONOMY
MORE SIMILAR TO ECONOMIES OF....COMMUNIST COUNTRIES
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
CONFIDENTIAL
(WHEN FILLED IN)
FORMIK-1
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD BACKGROUND USE ONLY
USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
(FIELD
MFG. 2-63
(15-20-44-4
ONTINUATION OF TOCS: INFORMATION REPORT
1.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
CONFIDENTIAL
(WHEN FILLED IN) FO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD BACKGROUND USE ONLY
IN. 26062
TDCS DB-3/656,842
PAGE
3
COMMENT. THẠO DID NOT STATE THE SOURCE OF HIS INFORMATION CONCERNING
NHU'S PLANS.) ACCORDING TO THAO, NHU'S CONTACT WITH THE COMMUNISTS
WAS VIA THE POLISH DELEGATION TO THE INTERNATIONAL CONTROL COMMISSION.
THAO SAID THAT NHU'S PLAN TO DEAL WITH THE COMMUNISTS MUST BE
FORESTALLED.
5. ON 20 SEPTEMBER 1963 THAO SPOKE TO A RANKING VIETNAMESE
AIR FORCE (VNAF) OFFICER CONCERNING THE POSSIBILITY OF THE VNAF
SUPPORTING A COUP D'ETAT AGAINST THE DIEM REGIME. THAO SAID THAT:
A. THE VNAF WOULD NOT BE INVOLVED IN ANY FIGHTING BECAUSE
RESISTANCE BY GOVERNMENT FORCES WOULD BE OVERCOME IN THREE. HOURS.
B. THE COUP LEADERS WANTED THE VNAF TO HINDER OR STOP THE
FORCES OF BRIGADIER GENERAL HUYNH VAN CAO, IV. CORPS COMMANDER
FROM ASSISTING FORCES LOYAL TO THE DIEM REGIME.
6.
THAO WANTED VNAF SUPPORT TO, STOP CAO ALTHOUGH HE BELIEVED
THAT. CAO MIGHT NOT NOW SUPPORT THE PRESIDENT AS STRONGLY AS IN
9 LEO 012250 21716 7487204
THE PAST. HE GAVE THE FOLLOWING REASONS FOR THIS JUDGEMENT:
:
A. CAO DID NOT ESTABLISH MARTIAL LAW IN THE IV CORPS AFTER
THE PROCLAMATION ESTABLISHING MARTIAL LAW IN THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY
ON 21 AUGUST.
B RECENTLY, CAO HAS KEPT HIS TROOPS HEAVILY..COMMITTED IN.
OPERATIONS AGAINST THE VC..
NE
C. CAO APPEARED TO BE REMAINING ALOOF FROM EVENTS. IN, SAIGON.
DCAO HAS MADE REPEATED REQUESTS TO THAO TO VISIT HIM AND
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS TEC2 DE-300E
CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO. DISSE ABROAD
BACKGROUND USE ONLY
(WHEN FILLED IN)
FORM 1K-1
1-63
USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
CONTINUATION OF TDCS INFORMATION. REPORT.
MFG. 2-63-
(15-20-44-4

55
IN 26062
PAGE
CONFIDENTIAL
(WHEN FILLED IN)
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION-CONTROLS
HO FOREIGN DISSEMIND DISSEM ADROAD
TDCS DB-3/656,842
C
BACKGROUND USE ONLY
HAS OFFERED HIS PRIVATE AIRCRAFT TO THAO FOR SUCH A VISIT
7. THE VNAF OFFICER WHOM THAO APPROACHED REPLIED THẤT COLONEL
HUYNH HUU HIEN, VNAF COMMANDER, WAS COMPLETELY LOYAL TO THE REGIME
AND, PARTICULARLY, TO NGÔ ĐÌNH NHU. HE ALSO TOLD THAO THAT IT
WAS VERY DIFFICULT TO PREDICT WHAT ACTION VNAF OFFICERS WOULD TAKE
C
1.7
IN THE EVENT OF A COUP THAO: REPLIED THAT IF IF HIEN FAILED TO
COOPERATE, HE COULD EASILY BE KILLED.
8. FIELD DISSEM. STATE (AMBASSADOR LODGE) USMACV (GENERAL
THE DAS TAST
HARKINS) CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC, PACAF.
LOUCER OL 281940:
:
ОБЕЗУГ НПЛИН АУИ со А Совь сониниров
ВАНЕ СОЛЬ ГЕЛОЕВЕ МУЙЦЕD THE AUVE TO HIDE
:
دن
206 THE
MBA ДОЛЕНИМЕНТ ЕОНСЕР МОПГО ВЕ ОЛЕКСОНЕ ТИ ІНЬЕЕ, нопае
ΣΗΕ ΑΥΤΕ ΜΟΝГо из Е ГИЛОГЛЕД ТИ ТИЛ Етечение всстMBE
VIK LOUCE (ANYL) OLLICES СОИСЕВИтие не дозатрат ILA OF THE ANNE
2710 18:35
:
ALTH THE COwn
:
CCNEAL HVO DID WOL TITLE THE BONICE OF HIS LOLIви соистине
END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS TEC2 5031020015
CONFIDENTIAL MO FOREIGN DISSEMINO DISSEN ABROAD BACKGROUND USE ONLY
CE
(WHEN FILLED IN)
FORM IK-1-
163
USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS.
NTINUATION OF TDCS INFORMATION RER
MFG. 2-63
(15-20-44-4:
