176-10036-10115 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10115
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO:
TITLE: CIA Information Telegram
DATE: 7/16/1963
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 198: Vietnam, 7/1/1963-7/20/63. Box 2

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by
CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET
(When Filled In)

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM BACKGROUND USE ONLY

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM
REPORT NO. TDCSDB-3/655,558
SUBJECT STATUS OF COUP D'ETAT PLANS DATE DISTR. 16 JULY 1963
OF TRAN KIM TUYEN'S GROUP
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
DATE OF
INFO. 15 JULY 1963 REFERENCES IN. 80366
PLACE &
DATE ACO. VIETNAM, SAIGON (15 JULY 1963)
APPRAISAL 3 FIELD REPORT NO EVS 9309
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE A HIGH-LEVEL VIETNAMESE OFFICIAL (C) WITH EXTENSIVE CONTACTS AMONG GOVERNMENT
LEADERS.

1. ON 15 JULY 1963 AN INDIVIDUAL ASSOCIATED WITH THE COUP D'ETAT
GROUP HEADED BY DR. TRAN KIM TUYEN, CURRENTLY AN ADVISOR AT THE PRES
IDENCY, SAID THAT THEIR NATIONALIST, ANTI-COMMUNIST COUP WOULD OCCUR
"SOON." HOWEVER, AS THE VIET CONG WERE REPORTEDLY PLANNING TO INTEN
SIFY THEIR ACTIVITIES DURING THE WEEK PRIOR TO THE ANNIVERSARY OF THE
GENEVA ACCORDS (20 JULY), THE COUP WOULD NOT BE STAGED UNTIL AFTER THAT
DATE THE COUP WOULD BE DIRECTED AGAINST PRESIDENT DIEM AS WELL AS
THE NGO DINH NHUS, AND THE GROUP PLANNED TO ESTABLISH A CONSTITUTIONAL
CONFIDENTIAL
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS:
HR
SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM BACKGROUND USE ONLY

STATEZDIR
Excluded from automatie
downgrading and
declassification

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM TDCSDB-3/655.558 IN 80366

FORM IK
OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SANITIZED AUG. 09.15

SECRET
(When Filled In)
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
BACKGROUND USE ONLY
IN
TDCSDB-3/655,558
(16)
57
80366
PAGE 2

REGIME BEHIND VICE PRESIDENT NGUYEN NGOC THO (FIELD COMMENT FVS-
9286 GDCSDB-3/655,471), FROM ANOTHER SOURCE, REPORTED DETAILS OF TUYEN'S
PLAN AND THAT HE WANTED TO MOVE BEFORE THE END OF JULY.)

FIELD DISSEM STATE (AMBASSADOR) USMACY (GENERAL HARKINS)
CINCPAC PACFLT ARPACO PACAF CORS Ponto HOLLE ALYOED OMLJE VLIES DIT

JAZIANEGA
7. OE
TUEMARE YOU OHOMA BSSALO (1) 4500 езика и
-BVITATUBT 21 TUSTHOD JAPAN 330242 VILAGO DUI MOITANACH 031AU JAVSKU UHT

SKAJR TATEO
EUTATE

SECRET
VELERENCSE
SKECEDENCE SCALIGE
BELOSE HOT 100709
CENDROF MESSAGE COMD NEC GHFA

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS.
NO FOREIGN DISSEM BACKGROUND USE ONLY
