177-10002-10102 Date: 3/6/2018
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY: LBJ
RECORD NUMBER: 177-10002-10102
RECORD SERIES : NSF, INTELLIGENCE BRIEFINGS, 11/23/63-12/5/63
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: THE PRESIDENT'S INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST
DATE: 11/30/1963
PAGES: 11
SUBJECTS: INTELLIGENCE REPORT
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT.
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: IB; Mandatory Review Material
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/12/1997
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: DOC. #8

v9.1 1

TO:
ROUTING
NAME AND ADDRESS DATE INITIALS
1 James Mathis, spec. Access, NARA 1/14/15
2
3
4
ACTION DIRECT REPLY PREPARE REPLY
APPROVAL DISPATCH RECOMMENDATION
COMMENT INFORMATION RETURN
CONCURRENCE SIGNATURE
REMARKS:

CONTROL NO. ESC-NLJ-089/93 B]
COPY 2 OF

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS, AND PHONE NO. DATE
Jennifer Cuddeback, LBJ Library 1/14/15

Handle Via
COMINT

Channels
Access to this document will be restricted to
those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET
(Security Classification)

THE PRESIDENT'S
INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST
8
let's fun &
Mrs. Roberto
12/10/63

ISSUED BY THE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

30 NOVEMBER 1963
TOP SECRET

1. Venezuela
2. Sino-Soviet
dispute

a. Election campaigning ended
at midnight, but boosters for the
several candidates continued to mill
about streets of Caracas in defiance
of terrorist threats to shoot anyone
who ventured out for the next three
days.

b. The terrorists, it seems,
were all but drowned out by the car-
nival air.

c. The FALN, meanwhile, is
trying to bargain off Colonel Chenault
for as high a price as it can, de-
manding variously release of all its
comrades, of all women detained by
the government, and of the six hi-
jackers who have been returned from
Trinidad to custody in Venezuela.

a. The Chinese Communists
will have nothing to do with the
idea of bilateral talks with the
Soviets under present circumstances.

b. Chinese party Secretary
General Teng Hsiao-ping, one of the
select few in Peiping's ruling cir-
cle, recently told a group of visit-
ing Latin Americans that such a meet-
ing could accomplish nothing.

(Cont'd)
For The President Only - Top Secret

c. Teng put the issue of
another meeting of world Communist
parties even deeper into limbo by
saying that Peiping would be in favor
only when assured of the support of
a majority of the world parties.

d. Moscow, for its part, has
apparently stopped thinking about
another gathering of world Communist
party representatives.

e. The feelers it put out
after the conclusion of the test-
ban treaty were received coldly by
some of the fraternal parties. They
felt such a meeting could only make
matters worse with the Chinese.

f. Indeed, Peiping saw this
to be Moscow's purpose, and when
the idea failed to take hold, the
Chinese took it to be a setback for
Khrushchev personally.

g. Their reaction to Khrush-
chev's subsequent call for a cessa-
tion of open argument was to press
the offensive, and this they have
been doing in roundly abusive terms
since.
(Cont'd)
For The President Only - Top Secret

Area of Main Map
USSR
Komsomolsk
CHINA
Vladivostok
Sof
SEA OF
OKHOTSK

KAMCHATKA
Ballistic Missile Submarines: Petropavlovsk
in the Petropavlovsk area
6G Class
3Z Conversions,
Impact Poid
PENINSULA

TOP SECRET DINAR
6 SEPTEMBER 1963
33881
Klyuchi
Impact
Area
BERING
KOMANDORSKIYE
285
Approximate Launch Positions
160
Submarine Ballistic Missile Launches in the Soviet Far East
"G"-Class Submarine

3. USSR
4.
-
Kenya
Communist Bloc
\

h. The forthcoming Afro-Asian
visits by Chou En-lai and Chen Yi
have awakened suspicions that the
Chinese are in hot pursuit of a
second Bandung-type conference--a
more rewarding enterprise from their
point of view.

a. Yesterday and on Thursday,
we detected what we believe to have
been operational training launches
of standard 350 nautical mile sub-
marine-based ballistic missiles.

b. Two and possibly four mis-
siles were fired from submarines
based in the Petropavlovsk area to
the impact area at Klyuchi.

c. Seven similar instances
have been detected previously this
year, and there may have been others.
(INTERCEPTS)

a. The Soviet Bloc will soon
gain an important propaganda outlet
in Nairobi, communications hub for
East Africa.

b. Plans are for a state-
controlled news agency to be set up
by the Kenyan government when it
(Cont'd)
For The President Only - Top Secret

5. Czechoslovakia-
USSR

achieves independence on 12 Decem-
ber. This will fall under the juris-
diction of communications minister
Oneko, who has well developed con-
tacts within the Soviet Bloc.

c. TASS has already agreed to
equip the new agency, and Kenyan re-
quests for further financial and
techincal help are being discussed
in Prague and Moscow.

d. Kenyan journalists have
been training in Prague and, on re-
turn, will find ready employment in
the new agency.

a. Czech President Novotny
returned from Moscow on Thursday
after signing a renewal (for another
20 years) of the treaty of friend-
ship and mutual assistance.

b. He apparently got little
else out of Khrushchev. The final
communique was conspicuously cool.

c. There were no Soviet con-
cessions, nor were there the usual
references to Czech "progress" or
to public support for Novotny's
leadership.
For The President Only - Top Secret

6.
South Vietnam

a. The first suicide by burn-
ing to occur under the new regime
was witnessed today by bystanders
at a crowded intersection in Saigon
where a young girl went up in flames.

b. A note she left behind said
she was protesting the war of Viet-
namese against Vietnamese. At the
intersection are three villas which
house the ICC delegations.

c. There were no Buddhist
overtones,

d. Some think the Viet Cong
encouraged her, but if they did,
they did not write her script. They
would have said it is the Americans
who are fighting the Vietnamese.
For The President Only - Top Secret

BURMA
South Vietnam
ARMY CORPS BOUNDARIES
NORTH
VIETNAM
CHINA
Quang Tri

LAOS
THAI.
IETNAM.
Hue
CAMB
PHILIPPINES
18
INDONESIA
27
LAOS
THAILAND
TONLE
Da Nang
Quang Nam
I Corps
Quảng Ngài.
II Corps
Kontum
Pleiku.
An Khê
Qui Nhon
Cheo Reo
CAMBODIA
*Song Cau
Tuy Hoa..
Ban Me Thuot
Nha Trang
III Corps Da Lat
Loc Ninh
PHNOM PENH
Tay
Ninh
Phan Rang
Phuoc Vĩnh
SOUTH
Châu Phú
SAIGON
Phan Thiet
CHINA
SEA
Cho Lon
Capital Military District
IV Corps
My Tho
Vung Tau
Isle de
Phu Quoc
Can Tho
Rach Gia
GULF OF.
SIAM
Quan Long
(Ca Mau)
Bac Lieu
SECRET
STATUTE MILES
33752
150:

NOTES
A. South Vietnam
Plans are now afoot to shuffle
South Vietnam's Corps commanders so that General
Khanh, considered by General Harkins to be the best
of the lot, will take over in the crucial delta (IV
Corps) area. General Dinh, the ambitious Minister
of Security, is still resisting pressure to relin-
quish command of the III Corps area, and is not in-
volved in the current shuffle.

B. Cuba-USSR There are about 8,000 Soviets in Cuba,
5,000 of these military, according to a bloc offi-
cial in close touch with Soviets in Havana. The
figures are close to our own estimate of 4,000 to
7,000.
Some withdrawals continue.

C. Cambodia-Vietnam
D.

Sihanouk seems to feel that cut-
ting off his nose to spite his face was not enough.
Now he says he will formally recognize North Vietnam
if the US does not silence the Khmer Serei radio.
South Vietnam will cut Cambodia's primary access to
international markets via the Mekong river if he
does. (INTERCEPT)

Indonesia-Cambodia
Sukarno apparently plans to go
to Cambodia on an official visit following his trip
to Manila. The Cambodian ambassador in Djakarta has
advised Phnom Penh that Sukarno plans to leave for
Manila on 6 December and directly from there for
Phnom Penh on the 10th. He will stay three days.
(INTERCEPT)
(Cont'd)
For The President Only - Top Secret

E. Coal and Steel Community Coal and Steel community
members at their next meeting on Monday will prob-
ably vote to raise community steel tariffs by an
average of nine percent. This would bring the tar-
iffs of each member into line with Italy's, the
highest in the community. Only the Dutch oppose the
idea.

F. British Guiana
-
Cuba
GIMPEX, trading arm and
source of funds for Jagan's party, has worked out a
deal to supply the country's major electric utility
next year with fuel oil from Cuba. Texaco and Esso
have been the traditional suppliers.

G. Brazil-US A press report from Rio cites "well in-
formed sources" to the affect that Goulart plans
soon to invite Mrs. Kennedy to visit Brazil so that
Brazil can pay her the honors which it had planned
to render the late President.
)

H.
Cuba-Morocco A three-man Cuban delegation is on
its way to Morocco to try to patch up relations
broken by Morocco because of Cuba's assistance to
the Algerians in their border war. (INTERCEPTS)
For The President Only - Top Secret

DOCUMENT OF INTEREST
The effect in France of the President's death.
For The President Only - Top Secret
