177-10001-10060
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 8/26/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: LBJ
RECORD NUMBER: 177-10001-10060
RECORD SERIES : NSF, COUNTRY FILE, CUBA, TDCS, VOL. I, BOX 32
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 12/18/1963
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: DOC. #158

v9.1
NW 50955 DocId: 32282900 Page 1
25

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
158
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs.
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/
BACKGROUND USE ONLY
(When Filled In)
COUNTRY CUBA
REPORT NO. TDCSDB-3/658, 582
SUBJECT CUBAN GOVERNMENT POLICY TOWARDS PRESIDENT
JOHNSON'S ADMINISTRATION
DATE DISTR. 18 DECEMBER 1963
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
REFERENCES
IN 82930
DATE OF LATE NOVEMBER 1963
INFO.
PLACE & 16 DECEMBER 1963
DATE ACO.
APPRAISAL
FIELD REPORT NO.
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
SOURCE A HIGH-LEVEL CUBAN DIPLOMAT IN WESTERN EUROPE WHO HAS BEEN A FAIRLY RELIABLE
REPORTER OF POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC INFORMATION.
:
1. FIDEL CASTRO WAS VERY UPSET OVER THE CHANGE IN THE UNITED
STATES ADMINISTRATION BROUGHT ABOUT BY PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION.
THE TOP CUBAN LEADERSHIP WAS SURE PRESIDENT KENNEDY WOULD NOT INVADE
CUBA AND THEY WERE CONVINCED THAT THE POLICY OF HIS ADMINISTRATION
FOR ECONOMIC BLOCKADE AND INTERNAL SUBVERSION AGAINST CUBA WOULD
NOT OVERTHROW THE RÉGIME.

2.
THE PRESENT POLICY OF THE CUBAN GOVT., ON ORDERS FROM CASTRO,
IS NOT TO ATTACK PRESIDENT JOHNSON IN PUBLIC OR DO ANYTHING TO
IRRITATE HIM. ACCORDING TO CUBAN GOVT, LEADERS, CASTRO WANTS TO
WAIT AND SEE WHAT PRESIDENT JOHNSON SAYS AND DOES ABOUT CUBA,
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/
BACKGROUND USE ONLY
STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACS1 NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC XXXXX OCI ONE OCR ORR EXO
STATE/DIR REPCINCLANT I&NS TREASURY...
GROUP I
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
FORM
10-62 1K OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS. (15-20)
NW 50955 DocId: 32282900 Page 2

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/
SECRET/ NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY
(When Filled In)
IN 82930
TDCS DB-3/658,582
PAGE

AND GIVE HIM. AN OPPORTUNITY TO IMPROVE, IF HE FEELS SO INCLINED,
RELATIONS BETWEEN THE TWO COUNTRIES.

FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT.

(END OF MESSAGE)
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRETA NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/
NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY
NW 50955 DocId: 32282900 Page 3
