177-10001-10064
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 8/26/201

Agency Information
AGENCY: LBJ
RECORD NUMBER: 177-10001-10064
RECORD SERIES: NSF, COUNTRY FILE, CUBA, TDCS, VOL. 1, BOX 32
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 11/23/1963
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: Consulted
CURRENT STATUS: Withhold
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/13/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: DOC. #190

v9.1
NW 50955 DocId: 32282904 Page 1

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
190
This material contains information effecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs.
793 and 794, he transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
SECRET
(When Filled In)
COUNTRY CUBA
SUBJECT
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
COMMENTS OF CUBAN OFFICIALS ON THE
ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY
DATE OF
INFO.
22 NOVEMBER 1963
PLACE &
CHILE, SANTIAGO (22 NOVEMBER 1963)
DATE ACO.
APPRAISAL SEE BELOW
SOURCE
REPORT NO. TDCs-3/565,826
DATE DISTR. 23 NOVEMBER
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
REFERENCES
FIELD REPORT NO.
ALEXANDER
BELES
BRUBECK
HAB47
DINGEMAN
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENTUS TENTATIVE.
A CHILEAN WHO HAS A GOOD KNOWLEDGE OF ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE CUBAN ENGLISUFIN
SANTIAGO ACQUIRED THROUGH PROLONGED ASSOCIATION WITH THE OFFICIALS OF EMBASSY.
HE IS AN ACCURATE, RELIABLE REPORTER.
APPRAISAL: IT IS PROBABLY TRUE THAT THE REMARKS WERE MADE AS REPORTED.

KOMER
SAUNDERS
SCHLESINGER
SMITH, WM. Y.
1. THE FOLLOWING ARE REMARKS MADE BY OFF ICIALS OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN SANTIAGO
REGARD ING THE ASSASS INATION OF PRES IDENT KENNEDY:

A. ON 22 NOVEMBER JOSE TOHA, VICE PRES IDENT OF THE CHILEAN CUBAN CULTURAL
INSTITUTE AND DIRECTOR OF THE PRO-CASTRO LEFT IST PRESS ULT IMA HORA , INFORMED
PEDRO MART INEZ PIREZ, CHARGE OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN SANTIAGO, THAT KENNEDY HAD
BEEN ASSASS INATED. TOHA SAID "ESTE ASUNTO DE KENNEDY SE ESTA PONIENDO COLOR DE
HORMIGAS" (POSSIBLY MEANS ASSASS INAT ION OF KENNEDY LOOKS LIKE IT COULD HAVE
SERIOUS REPERCUSSIONS). MART INEZ COMMENTED THAT HE HEARD THAT THE PERSON
ARRESTED WAS PRES IDENT OF A FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE AND THAT IF THE YANKEES
OR CIA ASSASSINATED KENNEDY TO RESUME THE ASSAULT ON CUBA, THEN A THIRD WORLD WAR
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET
STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OCI ONE OCR
TATE/DIR
GROUP I
Encluded from automatic
downgrading.and
declassification
00
FBI
ORR
Exo
I&NS TREASURY REPCINCLANT
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
DRM
62 1K OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
NW 50955 DocId: 32282904 Page 2
(15-20)

SECRET
(When Filled In)
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
IN 67147
TDCS-3/565,826
PAGE 2
WOULD START. HE SAID THINGS ARE VERY CLEAR AND THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT THEY
HAVE ASSASSINATED HIM, THE CONTRADICTIONS ARE WELL DEFINED AND THE MOMENT WAS
VERY SPECIAL, LIKE THAT OF THE MA INE. MARTINEZ SAID THE UNITED STATES IS NOW
IN THE MOST DIFFICULT POSITION OF THE PAST SEVERAL YEARS IN LATIN AMERICA,
THE WORLD, GOULART, ARGENTINE PETROLEUM, PERUVIAN LANDS, CHILEAN MINES AND IN
GENERAL ALL OVER LAT IN AMERICA. TOHA SA ID HE WAS VERY WORRIED AFTER READ ING
THE CABLE TRAFFIC. MART INEZ ADDED THAT IF THE USA IS THINKING OF INVAD ING
CUBA THEN THEY MUST HAVE EVERYTHING ALL PREPARED AND ALL THE STRATEGY CREADY AND
THEREFORE THE ALARM MUST BE GIVEN SO THAT CUBA CAN BE PREPARED.
B. THE CUBAN CONSUL AT VALPARA ISO CALLED THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN SANTIAGO TO
DETERMINE POLICY IN THE MATTER OF FLY ING THE FLAG AT HALF MAST. THE REPLY WAS.
THAT THERE ARE NO DIPLOMAT IC RELATIONS WITH THE USA AND THAT NO OFFICIAL WORD
HAD YET BEEN RECEIVED FROM CUBA, SO THEREFORE NOTHING SHOULD BE DONE. (FIELD
COMMENT: THIS IS AGAINST PROTOCOL BECAUSE THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT HAS DECREED
OFFICIAL MOURNING INCLUDING FLYING FLAGS AT HALF MAST.)
C. MARTINEZ REFUSED TO MAKE FURTHER STATEMENTS PREFERR ING TO WAIT FOR
OFFICIAL WORD FROM HABANA. SEVERAL TIMES HE DENIED THAT THE ASSASS IN WAS
INVOLVED IN THE FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE INS IST ING THAT THIS PERSON IS ONLY
A SUSPECT AND THAT EXTREME, RIGHT ISTS OR SEGREGATION ISTS ARE TO BLAME. MARTINEZ
SAID HE BELIEVED THAT THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT WOULD TRY TO PUT THE BLAME
ON CUBA.
2. FIELD DISSEM: CINCSO CINCLANT.
SECRET
END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION - DISSECTION
***NO"PUREIGN DISSEM

NW 50955 DocId: 32282904 Page 3
