2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 8/26/201

Agency Information
AGENCY: LBJ
RECORD NUMBER: 177-10001-10063
RECORD SERIES : NSF, COUNTRY FILE, CUBA, TDCS, VOL. 1, BOX 32.
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 11/24/1963
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: Consulted
CURRENT STATUS: Withhold
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/13/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: DOC. #188

TELEGRAM INI ORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs.
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
CLASSIFICATION – DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
SECRET
(When Filled In)
COUNTRY: URUGUAY
SUBJECT CUBAN PRECAUTIONS FOLLOWING ASSASSINATION
OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY
DATE OF 22 NOVEMBER 1963
INFO.
PLACE & URUGUAY, MONTEVIDEO (23 NOVEMBER 1963)
DATE ACO.
APPRAISAL 2
REPORT NO. TDCS-3/565,829
DATE DISTR. 24 NOVEMBER 1963 DY-SMITH
_ALEXANDER
BELK
BRUDECK
PRECEDENCE ROUT INE
REFERENCES
FIELD REPORT NO. HUM-2414 FORRESTAL
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.N
SOURCE A URUGUAYAN POLICE OFFICIAL (B)..
KILDOF
KLEIN
KOMER
SAUNDERS
SCHLESINGER
SMITH, WM. Y.
(CUBAN INTELLIGENCE
SERVICE)
1. RICARDO GUTTIEREZ TORRENS, THIRD SECRETARY AND CIS/
CHIEF OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN MONTEVIDEO, TELEPHONED THE
MONTEVIDEO POLICE AT 1710 HOURS (MONTEVIDEO TIME) ON 22 NOVEMBER TO
REQUEST EXTRA POLICE PROTECTION FOR THE CUBAN EMBASSY. GUTTIEREZ
SAID THE EMBASSY HAD RECEIVED REPORTS THAT A MOB WAS PLANNING
TO STONE THE EMBASSY. (FIELD COMMENT: THE NEWS OF PRES.
KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION WAS RECEIVED IN MONTEVIDEO AT
APPROXIMATELY 1600 HOURS, MONTEVIDEO TIME).
2. THE POLICE FURNISHED EXTRA PROTECTION TO BOTH THE CUBAN
EMBASSY AND TO THE SOVIET LEGATION, ALTHOUGH THE LATTER HAD

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET
GROUP I
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification
STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OC I ONE OCR ORR XXX 00 EXO
STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM
10-62 IK OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS. (15-20)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM TDCS-3/565,829

2
PAGE
MADE NO REQUEST. AS OF 1600 HOURS 23 NOVEMBER THERE HAVE BEEN
NO DEMONSTRATIONS AGAINST EITHER DIPLOMATIC INSTALLATION. (FIELD
COMMENT: THE POPULACE OF MONTEVIDEO HAS BEEN PROFOUNDLY SHOCKED
AND GRIEF STRICKEN OVER PRES KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION. A SPONTANEOUS
CROWD ESTIMATED BY PRESS TO COMPRISE 3000 PERSONS
MARCHED TO AMERICAN EMBASSY RESIDENCE EVENING OF
22 NOVEMBER TO EXPRESS THEIR SORROW).
3. FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR CINCSO.

END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
