177-10002-10103 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 3/6/2018
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: LBJ
RECORD NUMBER: 177-10002-10103
RECORD SERIES : NSF, INTELLIGENCE BRIEFINGS, 11/23/63-12/5/63, BOX 1
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: THE PRESIDENT'S INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST
DATE: 11/23/1963
PAGES: 15
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: IB; Mandatory Review Material
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/12/1997
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: DOC. #1

v9.1 1

TO:
ROUTING
NAME AND ADDRESS DATE INITIALS
1 James Mathis, Spec. Access, NARA 1/14/15
2
3
4
ACTION DIRECT REPLY PREPARE REPLY
APPROVAL DISPATCH RECOMMENDATION
COMMENT FILE RETURN
CONCURRENCE INFORMATION SIGNATURE
REMARKS:

TOP SECRET
(Security Classification)

CONTROL NO. [ESC-NLJ-063/95B]
COPY 2 OF

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS, AND PHONE NO. DATE
Jennifer Cuddeback/LBJ Library V14/15

Handle Via
COMINT
Channels
Access to this document will be restricted to
those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET
(Security Classification)

1
THE PRESIDENT'S
INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

ISSUED BY THE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

23 NOVEMBER 1963
TOP SECRET

1. South Vietnam
a. Vietnamese Communist ef-
forts to discredit the new Saigon
regime stayed in high gear this
week.

b. The number of armed attacks
was off from the high of the previous
week but still some 50% above the
year's weekly average.

c. These attacks have been,
for the most part, small-scale efforts
directed against the government's
paramilitary forces in the villages.
They have been designed more for
their psychological impact than for
immediate military gain.

d. A high volume of messages
on Viet Cong military and political
communications nets indicates a prob-
able continuation of this effort.

e. The new government is re-
sponding by stepping up its own
military operations. It is also
setting about the hard job of re-
vamping the Diem government apparatus
and harnessing broader popular sup-
port for the war effort.

f. The generals have been
dealing fairly effectively with

For The President Only - Top Secret (Cont'd)

OLOMBIA
72
70
CURAÇAO
Amuay
COLFO DE El Cardón
Coro
VENEZ
(Neth.) BONAIRE
Maracaibo
Cabimas
10
8
Cucuta
6
LAGO DE
MARACAIBO San Lorenzo
Barquisimeto
San
Fallbe
Vale
San Carlos.
Guanare
Encontrados
Mérida
Barinas
68
66
64
62
60
CARIBBEAN SEA
GRENADA
(U.K.)
CARACAS:
Ma
Los leques
San Juan
de los Morros
El Calvario
Fernando
Puerto Ayacucho
COLOMBIA
VENEZUELA
+++ Selected railroad
50 100 200 Miles
50 100 200 Kilometers
BRAZIL
72
70
TOBAGO
La Asunción
Carupano
Barcelona
Comana
Port
of
Spain
TRINIDAD
Caripito
Maturin
Tucupite
El Tigre
Puerto
Ordáz
ປ
BRAZI
BRITISH
GULANA
6307 30
68
66
64
62
60

i
i
BRI, GULANA
2
¥2
10
8

2. Venezuela
their new responsibilities. There
are, however, a few signs of dissen-
sion within this group and between
it and civilian politicians.

g. One of the more ambitious
and troublesome figures is the able
but opportunistic General Ton That
Dinh, the new Minister of Security.
He has been travelling about the
country spreading the idea that the
coup was largely his doing and seems
bent on developing his own independ-
ent base of power. He is a man to
watch.

h. The new regime has also
embarked on a purge of high military
officers who sided with Diem during
the Buddhist crisis and failed to
get on the right side soon enough.
(INTERCEPTS)

a. The death toll from the
terrorist outburst in Caracas last
Tuesday and Wednesday now stands at
about 30.

b. This is the high water mark
thus far in the campaign of the
Castro-supported Communist extremists
to disrupt the national elections a
week from tomorrow.

For The President Only - Top Secret (Cont'd)

c. The Betancourt government
has struck back hard. Its new uni-
fied command over the security forces,
set up at US urging, passed this
initial test with flying colors.

d. At least 500 extremists
were arrested and the round-up is
still going on. Their removal will
hamper the Communist drive against
elections in major cities like Caracas.

e. We now expect the elections
to be held on schedule, a consider-
able achievement under the circum-
stances. The elections will be fol-
lowed, however, by a Communist ef-
fort to prevent the March inaugura-
tion of the victor.

f. The rub here is that none
of the presidential candidates com-
mands President Betancourt's con-
siderable assets for dealing success-
fully with the harsh realities of
Venezuelan politics. The constitu-
tion prevents Betancourt from suc-
ceeding himself.

g. In the background, as
always, looms the military, which
could intervene if the president-
elect shows signs of being soft on
communism.

For The President Only - Top Secret

CUBA
Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) Sites

Mariel
Artemisa
HAVANA HAVANA EAST
Santiago de las Vegas
Remedios

SAN JULIAN
(Training site);
Isle of Pines

New site
Unchanged site
Estimated range

50
100
NAUTICAL, MILES

L
Holguin
Santiago de Cuba
US Naval Base
34095
11 OCTOBER 1963
SECRET
L

3. USSR-Cuba
a. In the past week we inter-
cepted Cuban military messages which
show that Cuban interpreters are now
posted at several surface-to-air mis-
sile (SAM) sites on the island.

b. We think this means that
on-site training of Cubans has begun
on schedule. Field training is to
last six months, after which the
SAM system may be turned over to
Castro.

c. In the past month some
1,500 Soviets arrived in Cuba. Most
of these were probably SAM experts,
sent to monitor the training.

d. Prior to their coming, we
had detected no more than a few
hundred Soviet military personnel
entering Cuba since the October
crisis last year.

e. We estimate that at least
15,000, and probably closer to
18,000, have been withdrawn in the
intervening 13 months, leaving, very
roughly, 4,000 to 7,000. Those re-
maining are for the most part ad-
visors whose main functions are to
train and supervise Cubans in the
use of weapons turned over to them.

For The President Only - Top Secret (Cont'd)

{
Π
Bremen
COMMUNICATION ROUTES BETWEEN
WEST WEST GERMANY AND BERLIN
Kiel
Stralsund
Hamburg Busche
Mittelland
Lauenburg
Hanover Canal
Schwanheide
Horst
Ր
•
Neuruppin
Wittenberge
Prenzlau
SOVIET
Liebenwalde
Havely
Stendal Rathenow
Vorstelde nebisfelde.
Helmstedt
Wriezen
WASTEAST
BER
ZONE
BERLIN
D
-0
POLAND
Limit of
Polish Administration
Jueterbog
Cottbus
Elbe'
Magdeburg
Dessau
FEDERAL
Walkenried
Halle
Ellrich
Kassel
REPUBLIC
Herdeshausen
Wartha.
Hoenebach Gerstungen
OF GERMANY
Probstzella
uchhoen
Ludwigstadt
Gutenfuerst-
Frankfur
Toepen Haf
Main
UNCLASSIFIED
Boundaries are not necessarily thince
!
32168
CZECHOSLOVAKIA
Railroad Canal Autobahn Road
Air Corridor
▲ Allied
Control Points for Allied Traffic:
Soviet
Interzonal Border Crossing Points:
West
IILES/
KILOMETERS
100
East
STA

4. Berlin
f. All Soviet weapons intro-
duced into Cuba last year have been
withdrawn or turned over to the
Cubans. The only significant excep-
tion is the SAM system.
(Includes INTERCEPTS)

a. We have had an indication
that Soviet harassment of Allied ac-
cess routes to West Berlin will shift
this weekend to the air corridors.

b. The Soviet man at the Ber-
lin air traffic control center told
the Allied representatives yesterday
that Soviet transports would be using
the air corridors for brief flights
during the next five weekends.

c. Moscow has tried on a num-
ber of past occasions to assert its
right to restrict Allied use of the
air corridors. In early 1962, the
Soviets attempted to reserve "blocks"
of air space for their own use.
have since demanded that Western
flights stay between stipulated al-
titudes, that we file flight plans
in advance and provide prior notice
of border-crossing times.
They

For The President Only - Top Secret (Cont'd)

5.
}
Iraq-Syria-
UAR
d. This sort of harassment
stopped in the spring of 1962 when
Soviet leaders became convinced
that the US was interested in a
serious discussion of a Berlin settle-
ment. Moscow may hope that the
threat of more of this sort of har-
assment will jog the US into talks
on Berlin.

a. It now appears that Presi-
dent Arif's role in last Monday's
coup in Baghdad may have been vir-
tually that of a bystander.

b. According to our latest in-
formation, Arif was wakened early
that morning and given five minutes
to join up. Tahir Yahya, now prime
minister, was reportedly the orga-
nizer.

c. Whatever Arif's role may
have been, the coup was primarily
an effort by the Iraqi Army to cur-
tail the activities of the extreme
wing of the Baath Party. The Baath
is an Arab nationalist political or-
ganization, active throughout the
Arab world, which has been ruling
Iraq and Syria.

For The President Only - Top Secret (Cont'd)

d. The coup group has not
thrown all Baathists out of the
government; there are party members
in the new cabinet.

e. Syrian Baathists have wel-
comed this retention of their Iraqi
brothers. Their attitude springs
from the recognition that the Baath
in Syria cannot stay afloat without
support from Iraq. Even so, we hear
talk of coup plotting in Damascus.

f. The reaction of Nasir's
Egypt, which passionately desires
to see the Baath go under, has been
exactly the opposite. Cairo has been
backing off its all-out support for
the coup ever since the new cabinet
was announced.
(Includes INTERCEPTS)

For The President Only - Top Secret

33741
TYURATAM
MONGOLIA
CHINA
PHILIPPINE
LANDS
SOVIET EXTENDED RANGE IMPACT AREAS
USSR
00
ARCTIC OCEAN.
BERING SEA
SEA OF
NOKHOTSK
VLADIVOSTOK
SEA OF
JAPAN
KOREA
TSUSHIMA
JAPAN
APPROX.
4900
NM
APPROX.
6500
NM
NORTHERN
IMPACT
AREA
Midway Istands
Johnston Island
CANADA
HAWAIIAN
ISLANDS
UNITED
STATES
SOUTHERN
IMPACT
AREA
1 OCEAN
:
PACIFIC
AUSTRALIA
L
L..
160
L
L
TOP SECRET
DINAR
1. L

NOTES
A. USSR New activity involving Soviet range instru-
mentation ships in the Pacific appears to be forth-
coming. Three instrumentation ships left Petropav-
lovsk 12 days ago and are apparently headed for the
more distant Pacific impact area, 6,500 miles from
Tyuratam. We are looking for extended range ICBM
tests but we do not exclude a space event. There
has so far been no announcement closing the area.
(INTERCEPTS)

B. Congo-USSR Soviet embassy personnel have not yet
left Leopoldville, but their departure is expected
momentarily. They were ordered out of the country
after the Congolese turned up good documentary evi-
dence of their complicity in anti-government plots.
One of the items taken off a Soviet diplomat the
other day was a letter from an anti-Adoula leader
now in Brazzaville asking for funds and arms to over-
throw the Leopoldville government.

C. Britain The Labor Party scored again in the Dundee
West by-election Thursday, increasing its 1959
majority of 719 to a thumping 4,955. Heartened by
this, Labor is now pushing for general elections at
once. Prime Minister Home is not likely to accede.

D. Ecuador The military junta which has run Ecuador
since July may be about to come unstuck. We have a
report that one of the less savory members of the
group, air force Colonel Freiles, will try to take
over full control this weekend. We are not sure
of the reliability of this report, but Freiles is
known to have been making motions in this direction.

For The President Only - Top Secret (Cont'd)

Ο
SOVIET EARTH SATELLITE VEHICLES COSMOS SERIES
1962-1963
SECRET
1962
APPROXIMATE ΤΙΜΕ LAUNCH PERIOD
APOGEE
PERIGEE
ORBITAL
OF LAUNCH (GMT)
SITE
(MINUTES)
(Ν.Μ.)
(Ν.Μ.)
INCLINATION
STATUS
Cosmos 1
(Sputnik 13)
12:00:00 (EST.)
Decayed
16 Mar '62
Kapustin Yar 96.35
529
117
490
25 May '62
Cosmos 2
1715:18
Decayed
(Sputnik 14)
6 Apr '62
Kapustin Yar 102.5
842
115
49°
19-20 Aug '63
Cosmos 3
(Sputnik 15)
0400:12
24 Apr '62
Decayed
Kapustin Yar 93.8
389
124
490
17 Oct.162
Cosmos 4
(Sputnik 16)
1002:56
26 Apr '62
Recovered
Tyuratam 90.6
178
161
65°
29 Apr 62
Cosmos 5
0259:49
Decayed
(Sputnik 17)
28 May '62
Kapustin Yar 102.75
865
110
49°
2 May '63
Cosmos 6
(Sputnik 18)
1600:00 (EST.)
30 June '62
Decayed
Kapustin Yar 90.6
194
148
49°
8 Sept '62
*
Cosmos 7
(Sputnik 19)
Cosmos 8
0918:30
28 July '62
0500:00 (EST.)
Recovered
Tyuratam 90.1
199
113
65°
1 Aug 162
(Sputnik 22)
18 Aug '62
Kapustin Yar 92.93
326
138
49°
Decayed
17 Aug 163
Cosmos 9
(Sputnik 26)
0940:00
Recovered
27 Sept '62
Tyuratam 90.9
191
163
65°
1 Oct '62
Cosmos 10
(Spütnik 27)
0900:01 (EST.)
Recovered
17 Oct 162
Tyuratam 90.2
205
113
65°
21 Oct 162
Cosmos 11
0655:00 (EST.)
(Sputnik 28)
Cosmos 12
(Sputnik 32)
Decayed
20 Oct 162
Kapustin Yar 96.1
497
132
49°
6 June '63
0924:40
22-Dec '62
• Tyuratam 90.45
243
114
65°.
Recovered
30 Dec '62
:
1963
Cosmos 13.
(Sputnik 34)
Cosmos 14:
(Sputnik 36)
Cosmos 15
1059:59
13. Apr 163
0830:00
Recovered
21 Mar '63
Tyuratam 89.77
182
'.
111
64°-58"
29 Mar '63
Kapustin Yar 92.1
276
143
48° 57"
Decayed
29 Aug 163
0829:58
Recovered
(Sputnik 37)
22 Apr '63
Tyuratam 89.77
200
93
65°
(Sputnik 38)...
Cosmos 16
Cosmos 17
(Sputnik 39)
Cosmos 18
(Sputnik 40)...
Cosmos 19
(Sputnik 43)
Cosmos-20
1034:07
24 May 163
0600:00 (EST.)
6 Aug 163
Kapustin Yar
0850:00 (EST.)
28 Apr. 163
Tyuratam 90.4
218
112
65° 01"
0300:00 (EST.)
22 May '63
:
Kapustin Yar 94.8
425
140
49°
!
Tyuratam 89.44
163
113
65° 01"
92.2
280
146
490
27 April '63
Recovered
5 May '63
In orbit, silent
since 31 May 63
Recovered
2 June '63
In orbit,
transmitting
(Sputnik 44)
0929:58
18 Oct '63
Tyuratam 89.55
: 168
:
111
65°
Recovered
26 Oct 163
Failure
24 Oct 63
Kapustin Yar
Cosmos 21
(Sputnik 46)
0623:39
11 Nov '63
Tyuratam 88.5
124
105
64° 50"
Decayed
14 Nov '63
Cosmos 22
1034:25
(Sputnik 47)
Tyuratam 90.3
211
Recovered
16 Nov '63
111
64°56"
22 Nov '63
-
T
1

E. Thailand Prime Minister Sarit, who suffers from
an incurable liver disease, is failing. Doctors
attending him, including one of our own, give him
no more than six months more. Sarit has attempted
to arrange for an orderly succession when he does
go. The chances of this are not good; Thai poli-
ticians and military figures are already jostling
one another for position.

F. USSR Cosmos 22, launched a week ago, was recovered
yesterday. It is the eleventh unmanned satellite to
be recovered. All recoverable satellites have been
launched from Tyuratam, the main Soviet missile test
center, and recovered after three to ten days aloft.
A series of non-recoverable satellites has been
fired from Kapustin Yar.
(See Chart)
(INTERCEPTS)

For The President Only - Top Secret
