177-10002-10096 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 Date: 3/6/2018
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: LBJ
RECORD NUMBER: 177-10002-10096

RECORD SERIES: NSF, INTELLIGENCE BRIEFINGS, 11/23/63-12/5/63, BOX I
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:
Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: THE PRESIDENT'S INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

DATE: 11/25/1963
PAGES: 11

SUBJECTS: INTELLIGENCE REPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; Mandatory Review Material
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/12/1997

OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: DOC. #3
v9.1 1

TO:
1
2
3
4
ROUTING
NAME AND ADDRESS
DATE INITIALS
James Mathis, Sper. Access, NARA V14/15
TOP SECRET
(Security Classification)

ACTION DIRECT REPLY
APPROVAL PREPARE REPLY
COMMENT RECOMMENDATION
CONCURRENCE RETURN
REMARKS: INFORMATION SIGNATURE
CONTROL NO. ESC-NLJ-083/93 B]
FROM: NAME, ADDRESS. AND PHONE NO.
DATE
Jennifer Cudde back, LB3 Library 1/14/15
COPY 2 OF
Handle Via
COMINT
Channels
Access to this document will be restricted to
those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions
TOP SECRET
(Security Classification)

THE PRESIDENT'S
INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

ISSUED BY THE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
:
:
25 NOVEMBER 1963
TOP SECRET
3

1. South Vietnam
a. Vietnamese Communist forces
kept up their high post-coup level
of activity over the weekend.

b. The most significant action
was an attack early yesterday morn-
ing against a US special forces train-
ing camp some 30 miles from Saigon.

c. When the smoke cleared after
a sharp fight, four US soldiers were
missing and at least 35 South Vietnamese
were dead.

d. Late yesterday morning, the
Viet Cong shot down two aircraft sup-
porting a government operation in
the extreme south, and damaged twelve
more. Two more Americans are missing
in this action.

e. Back in Saigon, the new re-
gime's troubles with the ambitious
General Ton That Dinh continue.

f. He is still angling to get
control of the important strategic
hamlet program and has yet to give
up command of the Third Corps, which
the generals assigned to another of
their number earlier in the month.
This corps is of particular signifi-
cance in that it surrounds Saigon.

For The President Only - Top Secret

BURMA
Manila
CAMBODIA
South
Vietnam
South
LIPPINES
China.
:
THAILAND.
Sea
!
MALAYSIA
Kuala Lumpur.
♡
BRUNEI,
Sarawak
SIA
MALAYS Sabah
Celebes Sea
SINGAPORE
SUMATRA
RI AU
ISLANDS
BORNEO
00
CELEBES
000
INDIAN
OCEAN
MALAYSIA
NDONESIA
Java Sea
Djakarta
Banda
Sea
TIMOR
CONFIDENTIAL
MILES
1000
AUSTRALIA
631.124 34176
1.
1
1
{

2. Indonesia-
Malaysia
3. Venezuela
a. Sukarno is beefing up the
subversive aspects of his confronta-
tion campaign against Malaysia.

b. Intercepted Indonesian mes-
sages indicate that regular army
units will shortly begin infiltration
operations across the border into
Sarawak and Sabah.

c. Seven thousand regular army
troops in Indonesian Borneo, the
messages show, are getting an inten-
sified course in guerrilla tactics.
This training is to be completed
next month.

d. Other messages speak of
the arrival, beginning today, of a
battalion of regulars from West Java.
(INTERCERPTS throughout)

a. The weekend was marred only
by sporadic and minor acts of ter-
rorism in several cities. Govern-
ment security forces have the situa-
tion generally under control.

b. The Venezuelan Air Force
is stepping up its efforts to track
down and destroy intruder aircraft.
The Venezuelans are convinced that
planes have been ferrying supplies
to pro-Castro guerrillas in the
mountains of the northwest.
For The President Only - Top Secret (Cont'd)

72
12
10
Rivaracaibo
RELA
70
68
66
CURAÇAO
(Neth.) BONAIRE
Amuay
El Cardón
Corp
Cabimas 2
LAGO D
ACASan Lorenzo
Encontrados
Trujillo
64
САКІВBEAN SEA
raca
Barcelona
San
Fellpe
Valenc
Maracay
Barquisimafo
San Juan
Los Teques
San Carlos de los Morros
Guanare
El Calvario
Barinas
COLOMBIA
VENEZUELA
6309195
San Fernando
de Apure
50
100
200 Miles
50
100
200 Kilometers
BRAZ
72
70
Puerto Ayacucho
La Asunción
Cardpano
Cumana
o Puerto La Cruz
:
62
60
GRENADA
(U.Κ.)
TOBAGO
Port
of-
TRINIDAD
Spain
• Matu
Puerto
Ordaz
Tucupita
BRITISH
GUIANA
¥2
10
B
4
BRAZIL
2
68
66
64
62
60
L
1
L
L..

4. Iraq
5. Syria
c. The Betancourt government
has scheduled a press conference
tomorrow to break the story that a
three-ton cache of Cuban arms has
been unearthed. A formal accusation
against Cuba is to be made before
the Organization of American States
a week from today.
(Includes INTERCEPTS)

a. The air of tension in Bagh-
dad dissipated somewhat after the
government lifted the curfew and once
again permitted private vehicles on
the streets.

b. Neither the city nor its
new rulers are, however, at ease.
Troops are still very much in evi-
dence.

c. The new regime apparently
is not convinced that the hard core
of the Baath Party and its paramili-
tary supporters have been put down
for good.

a. We have information that a
showdown between the moderate and
extremist factions of the ruling
Baath Party in Syria is fast approach-
ing.
For The President Only - Top Secret (Cont'd)

6. Italy
b. A clandestine source identi-
fies Prime Minister Hafiz as the
leading figure on the side of modera-
tion. General Umran heads the doc-
trinaire extremists.

c. It was a split along the
same lines that brought about the
Baath Party's fall from power in
Iraq.

a. Premier-designate Moro ex-
pects that the program for a "center-
left" coalition government will be
approved today by the four parties
involved.

b. Details of the foreign
policy planks are not yet available,
but they were drafted with the
thought that the death of President
Kennedy makes it more important for
Italy to play an active role within
the Western alliance.

c. After the program has been
approved, the final selection of a
cabinet can be undertaken. This
could take the rest of the week,
For The President Only - Top Secret

Asast
Abha
Qizan
IRAQ
CAIRO
JORDAN
UAR
(EGYPT)
Medina.
Aswan
SAUDI
Ras
Banas
Yenbo
ARABIA
SAUDI ARABIA
Zahran
Jiddal
Najran
Mecca
Taif
Sadah
Major road
Other road or track
STATUTE MILES
100
Harad
Maydi
UNCLASSIFIED
23
Abs
Hajjah
Wadial Jaw/
SEA
Khamis Mushait
Najran
Umran
Qizan
KAMARAN
(U.K.).
Raudha
Marib
Sadah
Sirwah
SANA.
Boundary
Jihannah
Harib
Marib
SANA
Al Hudaydah
TAIZZ
Mocha
ETHIOPIA
FRENCH
SOMALILAND
lbb
ETHIOPIΑ
Qatabah
Al Bayda
Ad Dali
ADEN PROTECTORATE
5
ADEN
CADEN
KUWAIT
NEUTRAL
ZONE
undefined
Al Hudaydah
Al Bayda
TAIZZ
RIYADH
KUWAIT
ADEN PROTECTORATE
ADEN
GOLF OF ADES
630801 3
STATUTE MILES
400
YEMEN
i
1
L
1.

7. UAR-Yemen-
Egypt
a. The Saudis told our embassy
in Jidda yesterday that a Saudi vil-
lage near the Yemeni border was at-
tacked Thursday by Egyptian aircraft.

b. It was the second time this
month that Yemeni-based Egyptian air-
craft have struck across the border
into Saudi Arabia.

C. As in the previous cases,
the Saudis have lodged a formal com-
plaint with the UN Observation Mis-
sion.
(Includes INTERCEPTS)
For The President Only - Top Secret

i
NOTES

He
A. Oswald Press stories to the effect that Lee Harvey
Oswald recently visited Mexico City are true, accord-
ing to our information. Oswald visited both the
Cuban and the Soviet embassies on 28 September.
was trying, we are told, to arrange for visas so
that he could travel to the USSR via Havana. He
returned to the US on 3 October.

B. Brazil A new round of military promotions and re-
assignments will be made public today. The present
instability of the Brazilian political scene is re-
flected in the numerous reports of coup plots which
this event has precipitated.

C. USSR At last report the three Soviet range in-
strumentation ships were dead in the water 500 miles
south of Johnston Island, roughly the same position
they occupied for last year's extended range ICBM
shots. No announcement closing this area of the
Pacific to shipping has been made and there is no
activity as yet at the Tyuratam missile test center,
but we look for some action in the next few days.
(INTERCEPTS)

D. Algeria We have a report from a good clandestine
source that a group of army officers is plotting
with Defense Minister Boumedienne to overthrow Ben
Bella. A growing estrangement between the two has
been apparent for some time, but this is the first
good indication that Boumedienne is making common
cause with those who wish to turn Ben Bella out of
office.
(Cont'd)
For The President Only - Top Secret

E. Australia - Communist China Peiping has signed con-
tracts for just over one million tons of Australian
grain to be delivered early next year. We had been
expecting the Chinese Communists to enter the market,
since they had another mediocre grain crop this year.
Peiping has been buying close to five million tons
of grain for the past several years.

F. Congo We hear that the Soviet Embassy in Leopold-
ville had booked 75 places on a flight to Brussels
last Saturday. There is still no information on
whether any Soviet Embassy officials have actually
departed, however.

G. Berlin There was no new harassment of Allied ac-
cess routes to Berlin over the weekend. A total of
16 flares were fired last evening near Tempelhof
Airfield, but we connect these with Communist ef-
forts to prevent escapes from East Berlin. East
German police were observed stringing barbed wire
in the same area a short time later.

H. Laos The neutralists claim to have made significant
gains in their limited offensive in the Vang Vieng
area. They have not, however, been able to dislodge
the Pathet Lao from positions within artillery range
of the town's airport.
(Includes INTERCEPTS)
For The President Only - Top Secret
