177-10001-10305
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 8/26/201

Agency Information
AGENCY: LBJ
RECORD NUMBER: 177-10001-10305

RECORD SERIES : VP SECURITY FILE, CUBA, MISC. PAPERS, 5/61 & 11-12/62, BOX 9

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO:
TITLE:

DATE: 03/27/1963
PAGES: 44

SUBJECTS: NEED SUBJECT ASSIGNED

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: DOC. #2

v9.1
NW 50955 DocId:32283208 Page 1

SECRET
2
CENTRALINTELLIGENCE AGENCY
Memorandum

NTRAL INTELLIGENCE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AGENCY
CUBAN TRAINING OF
LATIN AMERICAN SUBVERSIVES
27 March 1963

SECRET
NW 50955 DocId: 32283208 Page 2

THIS MATERIAL CONTAINS INFORMATION AFFECT-
ING THE NATIONAL DEFENSE OF THE UNITED STATES
WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE ESPIONAGE LAWS,
TITLE 18, USC, SECTIONS 793 AND 794, THE TRANSMIS-
SION OR REVELATION OF WHICH IN ANY MANNER TO
AN UNAUTHORIZED PERSON IS PROHIBITED BY LAW.

NW 50955 DocId: 32283208 Page 3

SECRET
27 March 1963

CUBAN TRAINING OF
LATIN AMERICAN SUBVERSIVES

SUMMARY . Page 1

DISCUSSION
A. Recruitment of Trainees 2
B. Travel. 2
C. Numbers of Trainees 4
D. Training. 5
E. Subsequent Employment and
Countermeasures 6
F. Purpose and Propaganda. 7

ATTACHMENTS
Argentina 8
Bolivia .10
Brazil. .12
Chile 14
Colombia. .15
Costa Rica. .17
Dominican Republic. .18
Ecuador 20
El Salvador 22
Guatemala # # .23
Haiti .25
Honduras. .26
Mexico. .28
Nicaragua .30
Panama. .32
Paraguay. .34
Peru. .35
Uruguay .37
Venezuela .38
Others. .41

NW 50955 DocId: 32283208 Page 4
SECRET

SECRET
OCI No. 0515/63

27 March 1963

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

MEMORANDUM: Cuban Training of Latin American Sub-
versives

SUMMARY
1. We estimate that at least 1,500 to 2,000
Latin Americans have received guerrilla training or
political indoctrination in Cuba.

2. We have recorded the travel of 5,059 Latin
Americans to Cuba in 1962, and reporting to date in-
dicates that at least another 417 went during the
first two months of 1963.

3. Field replies to a survey estimate that there
were about 11,000 arrests in Latin America during the
past 15 months for terrorism, sabotage, guerrilla ac-
tivity, or other subversive activity. Only a small
percentage of those arrested, however, were brought to
trial; almost all were released after varying periods
of detention.

4. Current efforts to improve and exploit re-
porting on travel to Cuba had not made themselves
felt during the reporting period. The security serv-
ices of Latin American countries accordingly were un-
able, with isolated individual exceptions, to estab-
lish Cuban direction, instigation or training of ar-
rested subversives.

5. Incidence of guerrilla, terrorist, and sab-
otage activity at present is highest in Venezuela,
Peru, and--in the form of largely non-political ban-
ditry--Colombia. There is sporadic guerrilla activity
in and around Nicaragua and Guatemala, and a guerrilla
potential in Ecuador and Brazil.

NW 50955 DocId:32283208 Page 5
SECRET

A.
SECRET
DISCUSSION
Recruitment of Trainees
1. Candidates for subversive training in Cuba
are selected by the leftist organizations sponsoring
such activity in their homeland. These organizations
are not always Communist, particularly in countries
where the regular Communist leadership is less mil-
itant than other extremist groups. One training
group of Argentines included Peronists, Trotskyites,
and Vanguard Socialists. A Peruvian group has sent
to Cuba for extended guerrilla training youths who
are not members of any organizations but have ex-
pressed leftist ideas.

2. In countries where there is Cuban diplo-
matic representation, candidates are screened by
the embassy's G-2 officer. We have no information
on how approval is granted in countries which have
no diplomatic relations with Cuba.

B. Travel
1. There is a concerted effort to conceal or
obscure the amount of travel to Cuba, the identities
of the travelers, and the length of their stay. Docu-
ments are falsified and such devices as detachable
visas, circuitous travel, and some surreptitious bor-
der crossing are used.

2. Since the October crisis, the only Western
Hemisphere access to Cuba by scheduled airline has
been through Mexico. Throughout the reporting period
Mexican authorities have been photographing passports
of travelers arriving from or leaving for Cuba, and
relaying the information to interested OAS members.
In some cases the travelers themselves have been pho-
tographed.

3. Cuban embassies, however, have been issuing
visas on separate sheets of paper to avoid any re-
cord of Cuban travel in the passport. In addition,
since some passports are fraudulent, the Mexican re-
port of Cuban travel may neither reach the correct
country nor permit identification. At this agency's
suggestion, Mexican travel control authorities late
in February began stamping passports to show arrival
from or departure for Cuba. While this effectively
counters the device of the detachable visa in the
-2-

NW 50955 DocId: 32283208 Page 6
SECRET

SECRET
case of legitimate passports, most Latin American
countries have inadequate personnel and adminis-
trative machinery to scrutinize the passports of
returning travelers.

4. Travel control in Mexico City logged
4,912 legal travelers to Cuba in 1962, and 969
in the first two months of 1963. (These figures
do not cover access by other routes prior to the
quarantine in 1962, and include Cubans as well as
all other nationalities. Accordingly they do not
correlate with totals for legal and illegal travel
to Cuba derived from available reporting in the in-
dividual Latin American countries. It should also
be noted that a "legal" traveler in Mexican reporting
may be listed as an illegal traveler by his homeland,
either because he had no authorization to visit Cuba,
or because of fraudulent documentation.)

5. Anniversary celebrations, goodwill tours,
and international conferences afford pretexts for
travel to Cuba ostensibly unconnected with subver-
sive training. Identities of trainees are usually
protected by pseudonyms, at least during actual
training, and the guerrilla candidate may return to
his Havana hotel every few days to maintain a fic-
tion of sightseeing. There have also been reports
that trainees have for cover purposes attributed ex-
tended stays in Cuba to detention by Cuban police.

6. Prior to the October crisis, there was
some direct travel to Cuba from Central American
countries, and occasional Cubana charter flights,
but the main jump-off points were Mexico City,
Curacao, and Trinidad. A Canadian non-scheduled
airline has operated a few flights between Canada
and Havana, carrying both personnel and cargo. Cu-
ban freighters call fairly regularly at Mexican
ports, and some Latin American trainees could reach
Cuba aboard Cuban ships picking up rice in British
Guiana. There is small ship traffic, of unknown
but limited extent, between Cuba and neighboring
islands.

7. Soviet and Czech airlines continue trans-
atlantic service to Cuba, and Iberian airlines on
11 February announced resumption of a schedule of
two flights a month to Havana via the Azores. Aero-
flot has occasionally sought and received permission
NW 50955 DocId: 32283208 Page 7
-3-
SECRET

SECRET
to land at Recife, Brazil, en route to Havana, and
may have picked up some passengers
8. Controlled sources who have undergone guer-
rilla training, and a comparison of inbound and out-
bound travelers identified by travel controls make
it clear that at least in the case of guerrilla
trainees one leg of the travel is often by way of
bloc countries and Western Europe. We know of Latin
Americans given Cuban training who appear on no
travel controls, suggesting that travel in both di-
rections was either by way of the bloc or completely
surreptitious.

9. A center providing funds and forged pass-
ports for travel to Cuba is known to exist in Monte-
video, Uruguay. The Cubans are known to provide
forged passports for some of the returning trainees.
One group of Argentines returning through Prague and
Western Europe was furnished with both Cuban and
Ecuadorean passports, to be surrendered in Monte-
video prior to re-entering Argentina.

C. Numbers of Trainees
1. Our estimate that 1,500 to 2,000 Latin Amer-
icans have received subversive training in Cuba is
derived from a combination of travel information, de-
briefing of controlled sources who have taken training,
penetrations of sponsoring organizations, and in a
few cases from the records of cooperating Latin Amer-
ican security services.

2. Monitoring of travel into Cuba gives some
indication of how many have stayed long enough to
receive training, but does not permit differentiation
between military training and political indoctrination.
We cannot establish a hard total or be certain about
length of visit because of travel via the bloc. Forged
documentation obscures an accurate nationality break-
down of the travelers.

3. The hardest figures on guerrilla trainees by
nationality are obtained from established and reliable
sources who have access to such information through
sponsoring organizations and in a number of cases have
themselves taken such training in Cuba. We do not,
however, have enough such sources to provide independ-
ently a comprehensive total of Latin America. Only a
few of the local Latin American security services have
adequate assets for contributing such information.
-4-
SECRET
NW 50955 DocId: 32283208 Page 8

SECRET
D. Training
1. The scope of training varies with the time
available. One agent who participated in a four-
week course in mid-1961 received basic training
covering cross-country movement of guerrillas, use
and maintenance of weapons, and basic guerrilla
tactics. Another clandestine source who spent
nearly six months in Cuba in 1962 devoted more than
10 weeks of training to weaponry, communications,
the fortification of defense positions, combat tactics,
general strategy, map-reading, security, and sabotage.
Both men reported considerable time devoted to polit-
ical indoctrination and physical conditioning.

2. One controlled agent reported that his en-
tire group was required to fill out an extensive ques-
tionnaire aimed at developing targets in the homeland
for sabotage, subversion of military and police, il-
legal entry and movement, operation of dummy business
concerns to cover clandestine operations, and possible
zones for air-drops.

3. Extensive use is made of Che Guevara's book
on guerrilla warfare. The trainees also use a hand-
book by Alberto Bayo, former colonel in the Spanish
Republican air force who trained the original guer-
rilla group with which Castro invaded the Sierra
Maestra. Thousands of copies of these books, in Span-
ish or in Portuguese, have been printed or mimeographed
and are circulating in Latin America. Some have been
specifically revised for individual countries.

4. We also have reports of related courses of
instruction, lasting as much as six to eight months,
in such fields as espionage, psychological warfare,
political action, agent communications, and military
medicine. Some of the trainees are women.

5. Most of the instructors of the guerrilla
warfare courses are Cuban. There are some reports
of Spanish instructors. Del Bayo himself is too
old to participate actively, but apparently has an
"emeritus" connection. General Enrique Lister has
been reported to be associated with guerrilla training.
There have been a number of reports, without hard con-
firmation, that Soviet and satellite instructors han-
dle some of the more sophisticated training in such
matters as sabotage and espionage.
NW 50955 DocId: 32283208 Page 9
-5-
SECRET

SECRET
6. Reports of trainees indicate that weapons
training is confined to weapons they will be able
to obtain, maintain, and replenish in their own
countries. We have reliable and corroborative re-
ports that trainees and sponsoring leaders alike
have been told Cuba does not intend to supply ap-
preciable quantities of weapons because a guer-
rilla must be self-sustaining. It should be noted
that while Cuba does supply some funds, guerrilla
handbooks also suggest that bank robberies make
guerrillas self-sufficient in this respect. Leftist
militants have in fact resorted to robberies in
Peru, Venezuela, and Argentina

E. Subsequent Employment and Countermeasures
1. Clandestine reporting has established a
number of incidents of sabotage, terrorism, guer-
rilla activity and other subversive action in which
individuals known to have received training in Cuba
have participated. The clearest cases involved the
establishment of local guerrilla training camps by
Ecuadoreans and Brazilians returning from training
in Cuba. In each case, however, our evidence of
the guerrilla training in Cuba comes from clandes-
tine sources, there is no legal evidence of such
Cuban instruction, and there has been no move to
prosecute. All 48 arrested in Ecuador were re-
leased after short detention. Two individuals ar-
rested in connection with the Peasant League training
activities in Brazil are still known to be detained.

2. The records maintained by Latin American
security services are inadequate and far from stand-
ardized, so that it has been difficult to establish
a statistical approach to arrests for all types of
subversive activities. Available reporting indicates
at least 11,000 such arrests since 1 January 1962,
but a survey shows that most of these arrests amounted
to little more than detention and some interrogation.
There were relatively few trials and convictions, prob-
ably not exceeding five per cent of arrests.

3. Some of those arrested were released for lack
of evidence, In other cases, for example in Ecuador,
Brazil, and in Peru until last January, there has been
little evidence of any inclination on the part of the
government to prosecute. In cases where trials have
taken place, the local security services have frequently
-6-
{
NW 50955 DocId: 32283208 Page 10
SECRET

SECRET
been unable to establish any Cuban connection, as in
the case of the 139 guerrillas tried in Venezuela
last fall.

4. In the absence of a comprehensive statis-
tical approach, information on arrests, trials,
and the involvement of Cuban trainees in subversive
activities is given in the individual country re-
ports attached to this memorandum.

F. Purpose and Propaganda
1. Fidel Castro stated in July 1960: "We
promise to continue making Cuba the example that
can convert the Cordillera of the Andes into the
Sierra Maestra of the American continent." For the
past year Cuban spokesmen have been taking the line
in public that Cuba provides the example for Latin
American revolution, with the implication that nothing
more than guidance need be exported. In private, they
have been offering training and financial and technical
assistance to Latin American revolutionaries. While
Cuba's economic dependence on the USSR restrains a
wholehearted endorsement of the more militant Peiping
attitude, Guevara and Education Minister Armando Hart
insist both in public speeches and in private remarks
to visiting Communists that "Socialism" can be brought
about in Latin America only by force.

2. Direction and support by propaganda is on
a massive scale. The work of Radio Havana and of the
Prensa Latina news service is backed up by bulk mail
and even air freight shipments. Postal and customs
authorities in Panama, for instance, are destroying
a monthly average of 12 tons of Cuban propaganda which
is entering or being sent through Panama. Costa Rica
averaged 10 tons in 1962.

3. Radio Havana's international service, started
in May 1961, now leads all Latin American international
services in program hours. It broadcasts a weekly total
of 188 hours of propaganda in languages including Spanish,
Portuguese, Haitian Creole, English, French, and Arabic.
This includes 108-1/2 hours in Spanish to the Americas,
7 hours in Portuguese, 7 hours in Haitian, and 17-1/2
hours in English to the Western Hemisphere. It also
originates black broadcasts on occasions such as the
disorders in the Dominican Republic in late 1961, and
makes transmitters available to Latin American exile
groups.

Attached annexes discuss Cuban training of Latin
American subversives on a country-by-country basis.
SECRET
NW 50955 DocId: 32283208 Page 11

SECRET
27 March 1963
ARGENTINA
1. About 500 Argentines are estimated to have
traveled illegally to Cuba for training in subversive
activities. One training group alone, given guerrilla
warfare training over a six-month period in 1962,
varied in number from 34 to 50. For the past four
months departures from Argentina for Cuba have averaged
35-40 a month. Argentine intelligence says 80 of the
500 are known to have received guerrilla training;
the number is probably considerably higher.

2. The federal district around Buenos Aires re-
cords no arrests for guerrilla activity. There were
155 arrests and three convictions for sabotage in 1962,
and 14 arrests, but no convictions, to date in 1963.
Records on terrorist activity show 468 cases, 60 arrests,
and 27 convictions in 1962; 121 cases, two arrests and
two convictions in 1963. Argentine police also list
628 arrests in 1962 and 1963 on the broader charge of
"subversive activity."

3. Altogether police files show 1,285 incidents
of sabotage or terrorism, of which 425 were committed
by unknown persons. Police have no evidence that any
of those arrested or convicted are known to have re-
ceived training in Cuba.

4. None of the individuals known to have re-
ceived extensive Cuban training hold influential
positions, but the following individuals in position
of influence have traveled to Cuba and may have re-
ceived some training:

Fanny Edelman, former secretary-general of
the Argentine Communist women's organization UMA,
presently assigned to foreign liaison of the Argentine
Communist Party.

Maria Josefa de Mastroberti, prominent member
of the Cuban Solidarity Committee for Argentina.

Osaias Leon Schujman, director of the Federation
of Communist Youth, national deputy for the Argentine
NW 50955 DocId:32283208 Page 12
-8-
SECRET

SECRET
Communist Party, reportedly a supplier of false pass-
ports for travel to Cuba.

Jorge Francisco Timossi, former Argentine
representative for Prensa Latina.

Hector Villalon, prominent Peronist close
to Peron.

5. Argentine guerrilla training units in Cuba
have been mixed, including Peronists, Communists, and
Vanguard Socialists. There are indications that the
most active recruitment is carried on by the Argentine
Communist Party and by the Communist-influenced left
wing of the Peronist movement, under the direction of
John William Cooke in Cuba. His wife, Alicia Cooke,
lives in Montevideo, Uruguay, which is the principal
center providing funds and forged documentation for
the recruits.

6. An Argentine taking a six-month course re-
ceived training in weapons, marksmanship, explosives,
ballistics, communications, strategy, tactics, sani-
tation, closed and open order drill, and construction
of defenses. Weapons used included Mauser and Garand
rifles, Brownings, Thompson submachineguns, bazookas,
81-mm mortars, and a 57-mm recoilless cannon.
NW 50955 DocId: 32283208 Page 13
-9-
SECRET

SECRET
27 March 1963

BOLIVIA
1. About 500 Bolivians traveled legally to Cuba
in 1962, and 25 in the first two months of 1963. There
have been no arrests of pro-Cuban agitators for sab-
otage, terrorist, guerrilla, or other subversive
activities in Bolivia to date.

2. We can identify by name 214 of the travelers
to Cuba. The individuals who killed a number of anti-
Communists during a pro-Cuban demonstration on 26
October 1962 were identified as having visited Cuba.
Six of these agitators were indicted but released
when government investigators placed the blame for
the incident on anti-Communists.

3. Otherwise there have been no known incidents
which might be attributed to Cuban training.

4. Zenon Barrientos Manani, a national deputy
belonging to the Bolivian Communist Party (PCB),
since his return from Cuba has been reported with-
out confirmation to be organizing guerrilla forces
among Bolivian peasants. The same untested source
said Barrientos was active in supplying weapons to
Peruvian guerrillas and had aided Peruvian guerrilla
leader Hugo Blanco during a reported Bolivian visit
by Blanco.

5. Other Bolivians in positions of influence
who have been in Cuba long enough to receive train-
ing include:

Daniel Saravia Quiroz, secretary-general of
the Bolivian Labor Confederation (COB). (Saravia,
however, is reported to have changed his beliefs
since his travel to England.)

Baldomero Castel, COB leader.

Oscar Salas, mine leader.

Oscar Sanjines, leader of the Cochabamba
Labor Federation.

Ofelia Altamirano de Sabrabi, factory wor-
kers' leader.
NW 50955 DocId: 32283208 Page 14
-10-
SECRET

SECRET
Student and youth leaders Andres Soliz Rada,
Dulfredo Rua, Walter Quisbert Barrios, and Alberto
de la Barra.

PCB leading members Mario Manje and Hilario
Claure.

Alcides Monasterios, national deputy of the
left-wing sector of the governing National Revolu-
tionary Movement (MNR).

6. In January 1963, there were 60 Bolivian
scholarship students in Cuba who had attended com-
pulsory 20-day courses of military instruction.
The Cuban charge in Bolivia reportedly said last
month that Cuba expected to give more than 80 schol-
arships to Bolivians in 1963.

7. The Bolivian government in June 1961, pub-
lished documents purporting to prove that left ex-
tremists had been corresponding with the Cuban Em-
bassy in an effort to obtain arms and instruction
for pro-Castro "combat groups." While Bolivia has
had extensive paramilitary formations ever since
the MNR defeated the armed forces and seized con-
trol, and while the extreme left of the MNR in
particular has strong militia units, we know of no
paramilitary formations linked directly with Cuban
subversion.

8. We assume, however, that some proportion
of the 500 legal travelers received indoctrination
while in Cuba.
NW 50955 DocId:32283208 Page 15
-11-
SECRET

SECRET
27 March 1963

BRAZIL
1. Approximately 400 Brazilian nationals trav-
eled legally to Cuba in 1962, and another 24 the
first two months of 1963. A total of about 50 Bra-
zilians are believed to have received specific guer-
rilla warfare training in Cuba, starting with a con-
tigent of 12 men in July-August 1961. We know of
19 Brazilian specifically. A defecting Cuban army
officer who claims to have run a base for guerrilla
training reports that 37 Brazilians took courses
there at a time which does not coincide with the 19
cases in our records.

2. At least four of the guerrilla trainees in
the original contingent of 12 were connected with
the guerrilla training camps of the Brazilian Peas-
ant Leagues, exposed by the Varig air crash docu-
ments. At least six such camps were established,
and each was to have 30 men and at least one leader
trained in Cuba. Only one of the Cuban trainees is
known to have been arrested. Altogether there were
only three arrests, although 24 additional warrants
were issued.

3. All of the Brazilians we can identify as
guerrilla trainees have come from the regular or
the dissident Communist party or the Marxist-oriented
Peasant Leagues of Francisco Juliao. Trainees sent
by the Leagues were in some cases also members of
the regular Communist party.

4. Brazilians in positions of influence known
to have received training in Cuba include:

Clodomir dos Santos Morais, number two man
in the Peasant Leagues, and principal agent in set-
ting up the training camps; still in custody.

Joaquim Ferreira, Pedro Motta Barros,
Rivadiva Braz de Oliveira, and Amaro Luiz de Car-
valho, Peasant League leaders. (Ferreira, a lawyer,
is a former economist for SUDENE, development agency
for the impoverished northeast. Barros and de Oliveira
are also student leaders, and Barros is a Communist
Party youth leader.)
NW 50955 DocId: 32283208 Page 16
-12-
SECRET

SECRET
Florentino Alcantara de Moraes, Pernambuco
state leader of the regular Communist Party of Bra-
zil.

Carlos Danielli, Angel Arroyo, Mauricio
Grabois, and Joao Amazonas, leaders of the dissident
Communist Party.
NW 50955 DocId: 32283208 Page 17
-13-
SECRET

SECRET
27 March 1963
CHILE
1. There were 551 legal travelers from Chile
to Cuba in 1962, and another 110 in the first two
months of 1963. (Anniversary celebrations tend to
make travel in January higher than the monthly av-
erage.) In addition, field reports show about 400
illegal travelers in 1962, under a definition which
lists nationals of one country who obtain their
Cuban visas in a third country as "illegal."

2. We have no hard clandestine evidence of
Chilean guerrilla trainees. A defecting Cuban army
lieutenant has told reporters that a base he com-
manded gave 19 Chileans guerrilla training in late
1961. Since neither travel to Cuba nor the large
Communist party is illegal in Chile, a Chilean na-
tional has little reason, other than the intention
to take subversive training, to conceal travel to
Cuba. On this basis it would appear to be a safe
assumption that more than half of the illegal trav-
elers probably received military or political in-
doctrination.

3. The only known arrests in the past 15 months
for subversive activity took place in October 1962,
when five members of the Progressive Socialist Move-
ment (MSP) were arrested following an explosion while
they were assembling bombs in a downtown Santiago
apartment. Four of the five were released after three
days; the fifth, whose hand had been blown off, was
given a jail sentence. The bombs were to have been
used against the U.S. embassy.

4. Julio Stuardo, leader of the MSP and one
of those arrested, had traveled to Cuba, but is not
known to have received any particular training. He
had been photographed prior to the bombing incident
with Cuban embassy officials believed to be intel-
ligence officers.

5. There are no Chileans in positions of in-
fluence who are known to have received training in
Cuba. However leftist Senator Salvador Allende, the
probable FRAP candidate in the next presidential elec-
tion, has made numerous visits to Cuba.
NW 50955 DocId:32283208 Page 18
-14-
SECRET

SECRET
27 March 1963

COLOMBIA
1. We have record of about 400 Colombians
who traveled to Cuba legally during the past year,
and no record of any illegal travel. Approximately
100 appear on manifests via Curacao, and 65 via
Mexico City. Travel information on the remaining
235 is based on agent reports and liaison.

2. Of these 400, 37 are reported to have re-
ceived training in guerrilla warfare, one in coun-
terintelligence, and one attended a staff or cadre
school.

3. Most of those selected for training are
members of either the United Front for Revolutionary
Action (FUAR) or the Worker-Student-Peasant Move-
ment (MOEC). Both are made up of revolutionaries,
dissident Communists, and recruits from the ranks
of labor, students, and the unemployed lower classes.
Both receive Cuban financial support, and are at-
tempting--without appreciable success to date--to
coordinate operations with the bandit gangs terror-
izing the violence areas of Colombia.

4. Two guerrilla leaders imprisoned in 1961--
Eddie Aristizabal of MOEC and Tulio Bayer--and one
killed in 1961--Antonio Larotta of MOEC--were re-
ported to have received guerrilla warfare training
in Cuba. Larotta's training was in 1959.

5. Colombian army statistics (which the U.S.
army attaché considers on the high side because of
the statistical procedures used) list 2,582 rural
bandits captured and 1,029 individuals detained on
suspicion of involvement in rural banditry in 1962,
and 300 captured and 134 detained in the first two
months of 1963. The Colombian army has no statistics
on subsequent trials, but on the basis of past ex-
perience it is estimated that about two percent of all
those arrested and detained--i.e., about 80 persons--
were convicted and sentenced. The bandits are not
considered guerrillas in a political sense, although
some Cuban propaganda has been found on dead bandits.
There were 388 bandits killed in rural areas in 1962,
and 89 in 1963.
NW 50955 DocId: 32283208 Page 19
-15-
SECRET
(

SECRET
6. According to official records, there were
13 terrorist attempts in Colombia during 1962, in
the course of which nine terrorists were captured,
and one was killed. Three of those captured--all
members of FUAR--were convicted. One of the three,
Alvaro Santiago Paz of Cali, is known to have
traveled to Cuba. To date in 1963 there have been
15 terrorist attempts, including eight in Bogota.
There have been 16 captured and one killed in Bogota
preparing or attempting terrorist acts. One terrorist,
identified as a FUAR member, was convicted in Cali.
One terrorist, not yet identified, was captured in
Medellin.

7. Santiago is the only captured subversive
known to have been in Cuba. Three leading members
of MOEC--Aristizabal, mentioned above; Pedro Abella;
and Fabio Molino--are known to have received training
in Cuba.

NW 50955 DocId: 32283208 Page 20
1
-16-
SECRET

SECRET
27 March 1963
COSTA RICA
1. A total of 216 Costa Ricans visited Cuba
in 1962. As many as 30 probably received para-
military training.

2. In February, 1963, 21 Costa Ricans re-
turned from visits of four to six months. It has
been reliably established that nine of them were
trained as instructors in guerrilla warfare, and
one was trained as an organizer and instructor for
militia training. The length of stay suggests
that the remaining 1l also received paramilitary
instruction. Three other Costa Ricans, including
one woman, known to have gone to Cuba for such
training are not yet reported to have returned
to Costa Rica.

3. Two Costa Rican Communist leaders are
reported independently by fairly reliable sources
to have stated that guerrilla warfare training
camps are to be established in Costa Rica. The
purely Costa Rican aspect makes this a new develop-
ment; guerrilla activity in Costa Rica hitherto
has centered in the relatively wild and lightly
policed northeastern frontier area, and has been
targeted against Nicaragua.

4. There have been no arrests for sabotage,
terrorism, or guerrilla activity in Costa Rica.
About 50 have been temporarily detained for sub-
versive activity, and one individual was arrested
and jailed for one year. (This does not include
about 30 suspected subversives detained during
President Kennedy's visit.)

5. Nineteen of the 30 Costa Ricans believed
to have received guerrilla training in Cuba are
known by name. Of the 19, the only ones in posi-
tions of influence are Oscar Morera Madrigal, San
Jose physician, and Modesto Ruiz Ruiz, leader of
the Communist labor union in the banana zone.
NW 50955 DocId: 32283208 Page 21
-17-
SECRET

SECRET
27 March 1963
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
1. The Dominican Republic in 1962 and 1963
arrested 120 persons for sabotage, terrorism, or
other subversive activity. Of these, 45 were held
for an appreciable time, tried, or sentenced. This
includes 33 who were deported. Of these, three are
known or believed to have received training in Cuba.

2. There were 15 incidents in all, five of
which are considered to have been inspired by Cuban
trainees. The remainder were caused by people not
believed to have had any Cuban training.

3. There is no hard evidence of legal or ille-
gal travel from the Dominican Republic to Cuba since
1 January 1962, although some of the deportees may
have returned from Europe to Cuba. The best avail-
able estimate is that about 25 Dominicans may have
gone to Cuba illegally. We have an unconfirmed re-
port that three Dominicans went to Cuba for guer-
rilla training, and 12 others are believed to have
stayed long enough for appreciable training or in-
doctrination.

4. Individuals in positions of influence,
known or believed to have received training in
