178-10002-10215
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 8/31/2017

Agency Information
AGENCY: ROCKCOM
RECORD NUMBER: 178-10002-10215
RECORD SERIES: ASSASSINATION FILES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: DEPOSITION OF (A CIA EMPLOYEE)

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:

DATE: 04/16/1975
PAGES: 8
SUBJECTS:
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
CIA
CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS
CUBAN EXILES
FITZGERALD, DESMOND
STURGIS, FRANK
HUNT, E. HOWARD
KENNEDY, ROBERT F.
ORGANIZED CRIME
ROSELLI, JOHNNY
STURBITTS, WILLIAM
GIANCANA, SAM
DOCUMENT TYPE: DEPOSITION
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; IB; IC
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/13/2001
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: Selected pages from deposition. Full document is number 1781000210091.

v9.1
NW 50955 DocId:32275518 Page 1

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
SECRET
1
CONTENTS
2
Deposition of
Examination by Counsel
For the Commission
3
William C. Sturbitts
2
4
5
(AFTERNOON SESSION Page 58)
6
William C. Sturbitts (Resumed)
58
7
8
9
178-10002-10091
10
11
12
178-10002-10215
13
14
15
178-10002-10279
16
17
18
19
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
20
21
22
23
24
25
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
SECRET
NW 50955 DocId: 32275518 Page 2
A

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
SECRET
2
PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION
ON CIA ACTIVITIES

Langley, Virginia
Wednesday, April 16, 1975
Deposition of WILLIAM C. STURBITTS, called for
examination by Counsel for the Commission on CIA Activities,
the witness being duly sworn by Thomas C. Hogan, a Notary
Public in and for the State of Virginia, in the offices of the
Central Intelligence Agency, Langley, Virginia, at 9:50
o'clock a.m., on Wednesday, April 16, 1975, the proceedings
being taken down in stenotype by Ruth G. McClenning, and
transcribed under her direction.

APPEARANCES:
On behalf of the Commission:
GEORGE MANFREDI, ESQ.,
ROBERT B. OLSEN, ESQ.

NW 50955 DocId:32275518 Page 3
SECRET
1

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
SECRET
2
PROCEEDINGS
Thereupon,
WILLIAM C. STURBITTS,
called as a witness by Counsel for the Commission on CIA
Activities, and having been first duly sworn by the Notary
Public, was examined and testified as follows:
EXAMINATION BY COUNSEL FOR THE COMMISSION
BY MR. MANFREDI:
Q Mr. Sturbitts, will you state your full name for the
record?
A William C. Sturbitts.
Q Mr. Sturbitts, do you recall when we spoke some
weeks ago you signed a document entitled, "Advice and
Waiver"?
A Right.
Q You understand that document is still in effect?
A Sure.
Q Mr. Sturbitts, by whom are you currently employed?
A You mean the Agency or --
Q That is right.
A Central Intelligence Agency.
Q And what is your current position with the Agency?
A I am a Special Assistant, Latin America, for
Economic Intelligence Collection and Operations.
Q And would you briefly review for me the history of
SECRET
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 50955 DocId:32275518 Page 4
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
SECRET
your employment with the Agency?
A When I first came in I was in the Intelligence
Directorate for approximately ten years and I was put on special
detail, special indefinite detail, in the Deputy Director, Plans,
which is now the Directorate of Operations.
Q What year were you put on that detail?
A I guess it was 1964, January, I believe.
Q And what did that detail involve?
A Cuban operations, economic warfare.
Q And how long were you on that detail?
A I was in the Cuban operations for nine years.
Q Between 1964 and 1973?
A (Nods in affirmative.)
Q And in 1973 did you assume your current position?
A Yes, January.
Q Now, while you were on special detail -- to the DOD?
A Yes.
Q Were you stationed in Washington?
A Yes.
Q And did you commute with some frequency to Miami?
A Yes.
Q Were your activities in Miami in any way connected
with the operations of the Miami Station?
A In some way. My responsibilities were worldwide.
I took temporary duty predominantly in Europe, and then Miami.
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 50955 DocId:32275518 Page 5

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
SECRET
Most of my operations were run out of Europe.
Q Run out of
A Europe. Some were run out of Miami but the big ones
were run out of Europe.
Q Well, in the course of your activities with respect
to Cuba did you have occasion to become familiar with the
operations of the Miami base?
A Yes.
Q And the situation in the Cuban community in Miami?
A Yes, sir.
Q During the nine years you were with DDO's Cuban
operations, who was who were the chiefs of the Miami
Station?
A I think in 1963 Ted Shackley was the Chief and he
was followed by I can't think of his name. I should know
it. Well, I will come back to that.
Then, the next Chief of Station was Paul Henze.
Q What years was he Chief?
A I think Paul was there about a year and a half. He
left in 1968 when we reduced the size of the Station. Let's
say Henze was there from 1966 to 1968. And then Jake Esterline.
He was Chief of Station from 1968 to 1973.
Q Now, what was the formal title of the group to which
you were assigned for the 9-year period?
A Well, when I first came in it was known as the
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
410 First Street, S. E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 50955 DocId:32275518 Page 6

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
SECRET
Special Activities Staff. It was headed by Desmond Fitzgerald.
And then, I believe after that it became the Cuban Operations
Group.
Q Now, was this a special group within the DDO or was
it attached to one of the area divisions?
A No. Following the Bay of Pigs, they created a thing
called Task Force W which was headed by Bill Harvey. And
that -- when Harvey left, he went to Chief of Station, Rome,
and Fitzgerald took over, it became Special Activities Staff.
It wasn't attached to anything except -- it reported to the
Deputy Director, Plans.
Q And that was Mr. Karamessines?
A Yes. Well, it was Helms at that time back when it
was first created. Helms was DDP at that time.
Q And Task Force W was created immediately after the
Bay of Pigs?
A Well, not immediately. I think sometime around
in the Bay of Pigs was in April. I think this was created in
September, something like that, 1961.
Q And that subsequently became the Special Activities
Staff?
A Special Activities Staff and consequently became the
Cuban Operations Group. As the Cuban Operations Group it went
back into the Western Hemisphere Division.
Q And what was the date of that reorganization?
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, DC. 2000.1
NW 50955 DocId:32275518 Page 7
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
SECRET
A Well, let's see. I would say that was probably around
1965 because Fitzgerald then became Chief, W.H., and then
later DDP.
Q Now, Mr.Harvey -- do you recall what position Mr.
Harvey held after he left Task Force W?
A Yes. He was Chief of Station, Rome.
Q And is he still with the Agency?
A Oh, no. He retired a long time ago.
Q Do you know where he lives at the present time?
A Frankly, I don't. I have an idea where he lives.
He went to work for a friend of mine who had a law firm.
Harvey is a lawyer.
Q Indianapolis area?
A Yes, some place around there. It is in the midwest,
Indiana.
Q What was the role that was assigned to Task Force
W?
A It was the overall Cuban operations.
Q Did the Miami -- when was the Miami Station estab-
lished?
A Well, I think they had a forward operatio-s base down
there about 1960 which was small, in Coral Gables.
Q This was, then, prior to the Bay of Pigs?
A Oh, yes.
Q Now, in addition to Task Force W, was the Miami
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
410 fust Steel, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 50955 DocId:32275518 Page 8

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
SECRET
Station running any operations against Cuba?
A You mean prior to the Bay of Pigs?
Q Yes.
A I really don't know. It was a small -- it was a
forward base and it was more or less as I recall, a support type
thing.
Q Well, after the Bay of Pigs when Task Force W was
established, did it have sole responsibility for Cuban
operations?
A Yes.
Q Or was that shared with the Miami base, Miami
Station?
A No. The Miami Station was under Task Force W.
Q All right. Would that also be true of the Special
Activities Staff, the Cuban Operations Group?
A Right, except that at the present time the Station
has no Cuban operations.
Q I understand that. When were Cuban operations termi-
nated?
A At the Station? Let's see. Sternfield went down
there in 1972. It was during fiscal year '72. I think it was
in early 1973. It was a gradual reduction.
Q And have those operations been terminated entirely
or are they now run out of the Washington area?
A All Cuban operations are run out of Washington.
41010 S.E., Washington, DC. 20003
NW 50955 DocId:32275518 Page 9
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
SECRET
There are no more paramilitary operations, that type of thing.
Q But there are some Cuban operations being run out of
the Washington area?
A Right.
Q Is that correct?
A Right. Worldwide.
Q Mr.Sturbitts, in the last couple of weeks you may
have seen some allegations in the press about possible assassina-
tion attempts that have been mounted or alleged assassination
attempts that have been mounted
A Right.
Q against Fidel Castro. In the course of your
activities with respect to Cuba, did you ever learn of any such
attempts?
A Well, let me answer it this way. I wouldn't say
attempts. I know there was discussion. "Attempts" is too
strong a word.
Q Well, can you place in time your first knowledge of
any such discussions?
A Well, the first knowledge I had of any discussions,
I was on TDY and this was October, November, 1963, with Fitzgerald
in Paris. And I knew that he was going to meet -- let me put
it another way. I had overheard that discussions were going on
with a member of Castro's military but that he wanted, as
I recall, he wanted some British -- I mean Belgian rifles and
410 First Street, S. E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 50955 DocId:32275518 Page 10
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
a telescopic sight.
Q Who wanted them?
A This military guy that was in Fidel's I think
at one time he was a commandante. Now, I knew that was going
on. I didn't participate in it because I was there for another
reason. And I know that subsequent to that time that Fitzgerald
met with him again and as I recall, as the personal representa-
tive of the Attorney General, Bobby Kennedy.
I provided all those files. There are 19 volumes that
we gave to your people. But I don't know who was reviewing
them. I think Belin was going to do it himself.
Q Yes. He is. He is doing it himself.
You said there were 19 volumes of documents with
respect to this.
A 19 files, manila.
Q All having to do with possible assassination?
A All having to do with this whole time period and
can we go off the record for a minute?
(Discussion off the record.)
BY MR. MANFREDI:
Q The first knowledge of such conversations that you
had, I take it you obtained on a trip to Europe with Mr.
Fitzgerald?
A I simply overheard it, that is right.
Q And who were the parties to the conversation you over-
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
410 fast Steel, S.E., Was D.C. 20003
NW 50955 DocId:32275518 Page 11

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
heard?
A A fellow named Nestor Sanchez.
Q And Mr. Fitzgerald?
A Yes, and I really can't recall some of the other
people. We were we had just moved the Station at that time,
in Paris, out of the Embassy into the old Rothschild Palace
and we felt that it was probably bugged, so all conversations
took place we walked around the garden and tyat type of
thing, and, you know, I was walking with somebody, somebody
was in front of me, and you just overhear conversations.
Q This was in Paris?
A Yes.
Q I see.
Mr. Sanchez was he a member of the military?
A No. Mr Sanchez was in the Special Activities Staff.
He was stationed in Washington. And he was in contact with
Cuban military-type.
Q Was it your understanding that the Agency had received
instructions with respect to this activity from another
component of the Government?
A Well, let me put it this way. I don't know whether
they received instructions. I have to assume, and I am pretty
positive, that this was a result of a Special Group decision.
And at this time you have to remember that Bobby Kennedy was
overseeing this deal, presumably for his brother, and he was
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 50955 DocId:32275518 Page 12
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
SECRET
part of that Special Group. He called the meetings, he presided
he did a number of things.
Q Were there any other occasions that you can recall
in which the possibility or the subject of assassination of
Fidel Castro was discussed?
A No, not really.
Q You referred to this as the first occasion.
A This is the first --
Q Was there a second?
A the first time I knew about it or even heard it
discussed.
Q Well, prior to the investigation that is currently
underway I am referring now to our Commission's investigation
were there any other occasions in which this subject came
to your attention after this discussion in the garden in
Paris?
A The only other thing that came to my attention was
that the decision was made not to provide him with this sight
that he wanted. Whether that is right or wrong, I don't know,
but that is what I was told.
Q When did you learn that?
A Oh, I would assume in must have been early 1964,
around February, something like that.
Off the record.
(Discussion off the record.)
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
410 1st Sccl, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 50955 DocId:32275518 Page 13

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 54-1-0000
SECRET
MR. MANFREDI: On the record.
BY MR. MANFREDI:
Q Mr. Sturbitts, are you familiar with a gentleman by
the name of Frank Sturgis?
A Indeed.
Q Is your familiarity based on what you have read in
the press?
A No. It is what is contained in the files.
Q Have you caused a search to be made of CIA files,
particularly the files of the Western Hemisphere Division,
in an attempt to determine whether Mr. Sturgis ever had any
connection with the Agency?
A I have.
Q What were the results of that search?
A Absolutely no connection, never has been.
Q When we talk about connection, are we talking about
an employment relationship?
A That is what I am speaking of.
Q Was Mr.Sturgis ever an independent contractor of
the Agency?
A No.
Q Was he ever a contract employee?
A No.
Q Was he ever a regular employee of the Agency?
A No.
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
410 lust Shaul, S.E., Washington, DC. 20003
NW 50955 DocId:32275518 Page 14
12

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
SECRET
Q Was he ever hired to do any piecework for the
Agency?
A Not to my knowledge.
Q Do you know whether or not Mr. Sturgis ever partici-
pated in any type of paramilitary or other operation against
Cuba?
A On his own behalf he did, not on behalf of this
Agency.
Q How did you learn of those operations?
A Through the newspaper. And through FBI reports.
Q Now, are these recent FBI reports?
A Oh, no. These go back I know at one time, the
thing that comes to mind, I think he made a leaflet drop
over Cuba and this was subsequently reported in the press and
by the Bureau office in Miami.
Q Do you know who financed his activities?
A I have no idea.
Q Is it possible that Mr. Sturgis' activities were
indirectly financed by the Agency through
A I don't see how. Frank Sturgis is a soldier of
fortune has been. He has constantly tried to associate himself
with the Agency. When I went through his file they wanted me
to classify the file and the way I classified it was "don't
destroy it, he is an intelligence nuisance."
Q Off the record.
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
410 first Street, S.E., Wastungton, D.C. 20003
NW 50955 DocId:32275518 Page 15

WARD A PALJI
Phone (Area 202) 541-6000
SECRET
(Discussion off the record.)
MR. MANFREDI: On the record.
BY MR. MANFREDI:
Q Have you caused the Agency records with respect to Mrl.
Sturgis to be assembled in any one location?
A Yes. Ihave custody of them.
Q And what is the volume of that material?
A As I recall, there are five volumes. Your Committee |
called for them the other day after the article in the paper,
I guess it was last Saturday. They called for them Monday and
they returned them Monday afternoon.
Q Do you know who examined those files?
A No, I don't.
Q You indicated a moment ago that Mr. Sturgis contacts
the DCD office in Miami with some frequency, is that correct?
A Well, not great frequency but he does with tidbits
of so-called information.
Q Is this information limited to narcotics, alleged
narcotics traffic?
A Recently it has been.
Q Has Mr. Sturgis been encouraged by the DCD office
in Miami?
A Mr. Sturgis has been told by the DCD office in Miami
to take his information to the Drug Enforcement Agency or the
FBI.
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
410 Sheet, S. E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 50955 DocId:32275518 Page 16
14

WARD & PAUL
Prome (Area 202) 544-6000
SECRET
Q Do you know whether or not they consider him an
established contact?
A No manner.
Q Do they have any do they periodically seek to
collect information from Mr. Sturgis?
A I can't speak to that but the records that we have
don't reflect anything like that. Before they would contact
somebody in that context, knowing that there is a 201 file
on Sturgis, they would have to coordinate with the Latin
American Division before they did anything since we do hold
the file.
Q Would you briefly explain what a 201 file is?
A A 201 file is a personnel file. It consists of any
information relating to an individual appearing in the press
as a result of other agency reporting and that type of thing..
Q Personnel or personality file?
A Personality file, I should say. Excuse me.
Q Do you know whether or not there is any connection
or relationship between Eugenio Martinez and Mr. Sturgis?
A Well, I will say this. Obviously, they do know
each other. They have to know each other from their days
in Cuba.
Q Do you know whether or not Mr. Sturgis ever partici-
pated with Martinez in raids against Cuba?
A No. As I recall, we employed Martinez around 1961,
410 fast Steel, S.E., Was D.C. 20003
NW 50955 DocId:32275518 Page 17
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
SECRET
I guess, and he was in our maritime activities. He was a
boat captain eventually. And he did participate in infiltrations
and exfiltrations and perhaps one or two raids, hit and run,
sabotage-type actions against Cuba. Sturgis never engaged in
any of these things. He never did it for us nor did he ever
do it on any of our boats, planes, or anything that belongs
to the Agency.
Q When Martinez would run such an operation or captain
a boat on such an operation, would he be charged with putting
together his own crew?
A No. He had an assigned crew and every boat had a
Case Officer operating either out of the probably out of
the Miami Station. Sometimes I would assume that we did have
some people in the Key West base. But he, Martinez, would receive
his instructions and briefings from his Case Officer.
Q So it is likely that he could have brought Sturgis
along on any of these operations?
A Absolutely unlikely. Oh, the guy whose name I was
trying to think of, Chief of Station, John Dimmer.
Q And that would be for a period of time between
Shackley and Henze?
A Yes.
Q 1964 to 1966?
A Something like that.
Q Would you describe briefly for me the nature of the
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
NW 50955 DocId:32275518 Page 18

WARD A PAUI
Phone (Arca 202) 544 6000
activities conducted by the Special Activities Staff during
your and subsequently the Cuban Operations Group during
your 9-year tenure with those groups.
A Well, there was it was an across-the-board
intelligence operation consisting of collection of foreign
positive intelligence, counterintelligence, paramilitary
activities, covert action, economic activities. That is about
the breadth of the thing.
2 Now, these were all conducted through the DDO?
A Right.
2 Now, let's speak for a moment about the paramilitary
operations. Were these operations run out of southern
Florida?
A Right.
2 And in particular out of the Miami Station?
A Yes.
2 Were there any other CIA facilities in that area of
the country that participated in these activities?
A Not to my knowledge..
2 Were there any southern harbors other than Miami
that were used in these activities?
A Well, we had activities down in the Keys also. As
I said, we did have a Key West base.
2 Were there any other bases in that area of the
country that were utilized in these operations?
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
410 st, S., Washion, DC. 2000)
NW 50955 DocId:32275518 Page 19

Phone (Ard
S
SECKEI
1
A Well, not that I would call a base. We did have
2
training facilities for the UDT teams.
ان
Ω
What is a UDT team?
4
A
Underwater demolition.
5
Q
Where were those bases located?
6
A
I frankly don't know. They were down along the Keys,
7
along that long peninsula going down there. There were a
8
number of sites. I really can't recall them.
9
Q
Were there any other sites within the United States
10
in which paramilitary training was conducted, for people
11
participating in these activities?
12
A
Not to my knowledge.
13
Ω
Where were these people trained?
14
A
What do you mean?
Ω
Well, Cubans who participated in these activities.
16
A
We trained them at these places we had in the Keys.
17
Now, there also some of them were brought up here and trained
18
at the Domestic Training Station.
19
Q
Where is that located?
20
A
That is down in Virginia.
21
Q
Were any CIA personnel actually involved in these
22
raids?
23
A
Occasionally, I would think that you have got to
41022 רון
24 understand at this time that we had a great many contract
25
employees, independent contractors and this type of thing.
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
NW 50955 DocId:32275518 Page 20

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202)
১
১.
SECXEI
1
Most of the paramilitary operations and the training was
2
conducted by the Special Operations Group which is another
3
entity of the
4
Ω
DDO?
5
A
DDO.
6
Q
Now, the facilities that we have been talking about,
7
training facilities, were manned, then, by the Special
8
Operations Group, or at least supervised by the Special
9
Operations Group, is that correct?
10
A
Well, supervised, yes, and I would think that probably
11
12
some of the training was given by their people. The Domestic
Training Station is under the Office of Training and but I
13
would think that in the paramilitary field that the SOG would
14
probably staff the training facility with their people who have
15
the expertise in paramilitary operations.
16
Now, were the people that were being trained at
17
these facilities basically Cuban refugees?
18
A
Yes.
19
Q
And at the outset I take it not many of those people
20
were American citizens?
21
A
No.
22
Ω
Or had become American citizens.
23
A
I would assume a great many have.
24
Ω
By this time.
25
A
By this time, yes.
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
SECRET
410 1st Shock, S... Washtogton, DC. 20003

٢٤٠
Ph. E., Wastington, DC. 20003
WARD & PALIE
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1
SELKEI
20
At the present time, how large is that Cuban community
2
in Miami?
Do you have any idea?
نیو
A
Well, it is extremely large. I would think it is
4
probably
I was trying to think. I would say up towards a
5
military people.
6
Q
7
8
9
10
11
You spoke about paramilitary operations and covert
action. How do you distinguish between those two categories
of activities?
A
Well, actually one can fall into the other. The
paramilitary could fall into covert action but in those days
we did distinguish somewhat. A lot of the covert action was
media placement. We had a number of operations at legal-
type operations, harassment operations.
For instance, Fidel
12
13
14
15
seized a great many art treasures and in particular he had a
Napoleonic collection which was supposed to be the finest in
16
the world that he sold to dealers in Europe. He had paintings
17
that were immensely valuable that he tried to have auctioned
18
19
in London and the London auctioneer would not accept them
because he obviously didn't have clear title to them. He was
20
they were stolen, in the eyes of the auctioneer.
He was
21
forced to auction them in Toronto, Canada.
22
We ran legal operations, got the owners and had them
23
hire attorneys and bring them to court and this type of thing.
24
He seized these race horses. He tried to peddle them
25
in Europe and up in Canada. We ran opposition against that
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
