178-10002-10091
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 8/31/201

Agency Information
AGENCY: ROCKCOM
RECORD NUMBER: 178-10002-10091
RECORD SERIES: SCHWARZER-MANFREDI FILES
. AGENCY FILE NUMBER: S-M (IV-W)

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION
FROM:
ΤΟ:
TITLE: DEPOSITION OF WILLIAM C. STURBITTS
DATE: 04/16/1975
PAGES: 113
SUBJECTS: ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
ASSASSINATIONS, FOREIGN LEADERS
CIA
CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS
CUBAN EXILES
FERRIE, DAVID
STURGIS, FRANK
HUNT, E. HOWARD
MIAMI
NEW ORLEANS
SHAW, CLAY
STURBITTS, WILLIAM C.
GARRISON, JIM
DOCUMENT TYPE: DEPOSITION
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; IB; IC
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/13/2001
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: Unknown whether name is releasable.
9.1
NW 50955 DocId: 32204971
1
Page 1
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
1
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
SECRET
1
CONTENTS
2
Deposition of
Examination by Counsel
For the Commission
William C. Sturbitts
4
2
5
(AFTERNOON SESSION Page 58)
6
William C. Sturbitts (Resumed)
7
58
8
9
178-10002-10091
10
11
12
178-10002-10215
13
14
15
178-10002-10279
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
25
SECRET
NW 50955 DocId: 32204971 Page 2
A
WARD & PAUL
1 חפר
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
6
5
4
2
1-4
SECRET
PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION
ON CIA ACTIVITIES
Langley, Virginia
Wednesday, April 16, 1975
Deposition of WILLIAM C. STURBITTS, called for
7
පි
9
10
examination by Counsel for the Commission on CIA Activities,
the witness being duly sworn by Thomas C. Hogan, a Notary
Public in and for the State of Virginia, in the offices of the
Central Intelligence Agency, Langley, Virginia, at 9:50
12
o'clock a.m., on Wednesday, April 16, 1975, the proceedings
12
being taken down in stenotype by Ruth G. McClenning, and
13
>
transcribed under her direction.
14
APPEARANCES:
15
16
17
On behalf of the Commission:
GEORGE MANFREDI, ESQ.,
ROBERT B. OLSEN, ESQ.
18
19
20
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
21
22
23
24
25
NW 50955 DocId:32204971 Page 3
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
1
SECRET
2
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1
2
Thereupon,
PROCEEDINGS
כיו
4
5
6
7
8
WILLIAM C. STURBITTS,
called as a witness by Counsel for the Commission on CIA
Activities, and having been first duly sworn by the Notary
Public, was examined and testified as follows:
EXAMINATION BY COUNSEL FOR THE COMMISSION
BY MR. MANFREDI:
9
Q
Mr. Sturbitts, will you state your full name for the
10
record?
11
A
William C. Sturbitts.
12.
WARD & PAUL
Q
Mr. Sturbitts, do you recall when we spoke some
13
:
weeks ago you signed a document entitled, "Advice and
14
Waiver"?
15
Right.
16
Q
You understand that document is still in effect?
17
A
Sure.
18
Q
19
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
A
Mr. Sturbitts, by whom are you currently employed?
You mean the Agency or
20
Q
That is right.
21
A
Central Intelligence Agency.
가
:'
22
Q
And what is your current position with the Agency?
23
A
I am a Special Assistant, Latin America, for
24
Economic Intelligence Collection and Operations.
25
Q
NW 50955 DocId:32204971
Page 4
And would you briefly review for me the history of
SECRET
Gerald Ford Library
Photocopy from
ت
WARD & PAUL
Phane (Area 202) 544-6000
SECRET
3
1
your employment with the Agency?
2
A
When I first came in I was in the Intelligence
3
Directorate for approximately ten years and I was put on special
4
detail, special indefinite detail, in the Deputy Director, Plans,
5
which is now the Directorate of Operations.
6
Q
What year were you put on that detail?
7
A
I guess it was 1964, January, I believe.
8
Ω
And what did that detail involve?
9
A
Cuban operations, economic warfare.
10
Q
And how long were you on that detail?
11
A
I was in the Cuban operations for nine years.
12
Q
Between 1964 and. 1973?
WARD & PAUL
13
A
(Nods in affirmative.)
14
Q
And in 1973 did you assume your current position?
15
A
Yes, January.
16
Q
Now, while you were on special detail to the DOD?
17
A
Yes.
18
2
Were you stationed in Washington?
19
A
Yes.
20
Q
And did you commute with some frequency to Miami?
21
A
Yes.
22
Q
Were your activities in Miami in any way connected
23
with the operations of the Miami Station?
24
A
In some way. My responsibilities were worldwide.
25
I took temporary duty predominantly in Europe, and then Miami.
410 1st Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 50955 DocId: 32204971 Page 5
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
SECRET
4
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1
Most of my operations were run out of Europe.
2
Q
Run out of
10
A
Europe. Some were run out of Miami but the big ones
4
were run out of Europe.
5
Q
Well, in the course of your activities with respect
6
7
to Cuba did you have occasion to become familiar with the
operations of the Miami base?
8
A
Yes.
9
Q
And the situation in the Cuban community in Miami?
10
A
Yes, sir.
11
Q
During the nine years you were with DDO's Cuban
12
WARD & PAUL
operations, who was who were the chiefs of the Miami
13
Station?
14
A
I think in 1963 Ted Shackley was the Chief and he
15
16
was followed by I can't think of his name. I should know
it. Well, I will come back to that.
17:
18
Q
Then, the next Chief of Station was Paul Henze.
What years was he Chief?
19
A
410 first Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
I think Paul was there about a year and a half.
He
20
left in 1968 when we reduced the size of the Station.
Let's
21
say Henze was there from 1966 to 1968.
And then Jake Esterline.
22
He was Chief of Station from 1968 to 1973.
23
Q
Now, what was the formal title of the group to which
24
you were assigned for the 9-year period?
25
A
Well, when I first came in it was known as the
۱
SECRET
NW 50955 DocId:32204971 Page 6
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
SECRET
5
מיו
1
2
Special Activities Staff. It was headed by Desmond Fitzgerald.
And then, I believe after that it became the Cuban Operations
Group.
4
Q
Now, was this a special group within the DDO or was
5
it attached to one of the area divisions?
6
A
No. Following the Bay of Pigs, they created a thing
7
called Task Force W which was headed by Bill Harvey.
And
8
that
when Harvey left, he went to Chief of Station, Rome,.
9
10
11
and Fitzgerald took over, it became Special Activities Staff.
It wasn't attached to anything except it reported to the
Deputy Director, Plans.
12
Q
And that was Mr. Karamessines?
13
A
Yes.
Well, it was Helms at that time back when it
14
was first created. Helms was DDP at that time.
15
2 And Task Force W was created immediately after the
16
Bay of Pigs?.
17
A
Well, not immediately.
I think sometime around
1.8
19
in the Bay of Pigs was in April. I think this was created in
September, something like that, 1961.
20
Q
And that subsequently became the Special Activities
21
Staff?
22
A
Special Activities Staff and consequently became the
23
24
Cuban Operations Group. As the Cuban Operations Group it went
back into the Western Hemisphere Division.
25
And what was the date of that reorganization?
410 Fast Straat, S.E., Washington, DC. 2000.3
NW 50955 DocId: 32204971 Page 7
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1
2
SECRET
A
Well, let's see. I would say that was probably around
1965 because Fitzgerald then became Chief, W.H., and then
3
later DDP.
4
Q
Now, Mr.Harvey
do you recall what position Mr.
5
Harvey held after he left Task Force W?
6
A
Yes. He was Chief of Station, Rome.
7
Q
And is he still with the Agency?
8
A
Oh, no. He retired a long time ago.
9
2
Do you know where he lives at the present time?
10
A
Frankly, I don't. I have an idea where he lives.
1.1
He went to work for a
friend of mine who had a law firm.
12
Harvey is a lawyer.
13
2
Indianapolis area?
A
14
Yes, some place around there. It is in the midwest,
Indiana.
1.5
What was the role that was assigned to Task Force
16
W?
17
A
It was the overall Cuban operations.
18
Q
Did the Miami
when was the Miami Station estab-
19
lished?
20
A
Well, I think they had a forward operatio-s base down
21
there about 1960 which was small, in Coral Gables.
22
Q
This was, then, prior to the Bay of Pigs?
23
A
Oh, yes.
24
2
Now, in addition to Task Force W, was the Miami
25
SECRET
:
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
t
410 1st Street, S.C., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 50955 DocId:32204971 Page 8
6
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
SECRET
1
Station running any operations against Cuba?
2
A
You mean prior to the Bay of Pigs?
C1
Q
Yes.
4
A
5
it was a
I really don't know. It was a small
forward base and it was more or less as I recall, a support type
6
thing.
:
7
Q Well, after the Bay of Pigs when Task Force W was
8
established, did it have sole responsibility for Cuban
.:
9
operations?
10
A
Yes.
!
11
Q
Or was that shared with the Miami base, Miami
12
WARD & PAUL
Station?
13
A
No. The Miami Station was under Task Force W.
14
Q All right. Would that also be true of the Special
15. Activities Staff, the Cuban Operations Group?
16
A
Right, except that at the present time the Station
-:
17
has no Cuban operations.
18
Q
I understand that. When were Cuban operations termi-
19:
nated?
410 Fust Street, S.E., Wastington, DC. 20003
20
A
21
At the Station? Let's see.
there in 1972. It was during fiscal year '72. I think it was
Sternfield went down
22
in early 1973. It was a gradual reduction.
23
Q
And have those operations been terminated entirely
:
24
or are they now run out of the Washington area?
25
A
All Cuban operations are run out of Washington.
SECRET
NW 50955 DocId:32204971
Page 9
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
SECRET
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
7
There are no more paramilitary operations, that type of thing.
2
Q
But there are some Cuban operations being run out of
כין
the Washington area?
4
A
Right.
::
5
Q
Is that correct?
6
A
Right.
Worldwide.
:
7
Ω
Mr.Sturbitts, in the last couple of weeks you may
8
have seen some allegations in the press about possible assassina-
9
tion attempts that have been mounted or alleged assassination
10
attempts that have been mounted
11
A
Right.
12
Q
WARD & PAUL
against Fidel Castro. In the course of your
13
activities with respect to Cuba, did you ever learn of any such
14
attempts?
15
A
16
17
Well, let me answer it this way. I wouldn't say
attempts. I know there was discussion. "Attempts" is too
strong a word.
18
Q
19:
Well, can you place in time your first knowledge of
any such discussions?
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
20
A
Well, the first knowledge I had of any discussions,
21
22
23
And I knew that he was going to meet
I was on TDY and this was October, November, 1963, with Fitzgerald
let me put
in Paris.
it another way. I had overheard that discussions were going on
24
with a member of Castro's military but that he wanted, as
25
I recall, he wanted some British
I mean Belgian rifles and
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
NW 50955 DocId: 32204971 Page 10
410 1024 Street, S.F., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD IN PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
9
1
a telescopic sight.
2
Q
Who wanted them?
こ
יו
A
This military guy that was in Fidel's
소
I think
at one time he was a commandante. Now, I knew that was going
5
6
on. I didn't participate in it because I was there for another
reason. And I know that subsequent to that time that Fitzgerald
7
8
met with him again and as I recall, as the personal representa-
tive of the Attorney General, Bobby Kennedy.
9
10
11
I provided all those files. There are 19 volumes that
we gave to your people. But I don't know who was reviewing
them. I think Belin was going to do it himself.
:
12
Q
Yes. He is. He is doing it himself.
13:
You said there were 19 volumes of documents with
14
respect to this.
15
A
19 files, manila.
16
Q
All having to do with possible assassination?
:
17
A
All having to do with this whole time period and
18
19
can we go off the record for a minute?
(Discussion off the record.)
20
21
BY MR. MANFREDI:
Q
The first knowledge of such conversations that you
!
22
had, I take it you obtained on a trip to Europe with Mr.
23 Fitzgerald?
24
A
I simply overheard it, that is right.
25
Ω
And who were the parties to the conversation you over-
NW 50955 DocId:32204971 Page 11
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Arca 202) 544-6000
10
1
heard?
2
A
A fellow named Nestor Sanchez.
3
Q
And Mr. Fitzgerald?
4
A
Yes, and I really can't recall some of the other
5
people. We were we had just moved the Station at that time,
6
i:
in Paris, out of the Embassy into the old Rothschild Palace
7
and we felt that it was probably bugged, so all conversations
8
9
took place we walked around the garden and tyat type of
thing, and, you know, I was walking with somebody, somebody
10
was in front of me, and you just overhear conversations.
1.1
Q
This was in Paris?
12
A
Yes.
13
Q
I see.
14
Mr. Sanchez was he a member of the military?
15
A
No. Mr Sanchez was in the Special Activities Staff.
16
He was stationed in Washington.
And he was in contact with
17
Cuban military-type.
18
Q
Was it your understanding that the Agency had received
19
instructions with respect to this activity from another
20
component of the Government?
21
A
:
22
Well, let me put it this way. I don't know whether
they received instructions.
I have to assume, and I am pretty
23
positive, that this was a result of a Special Group decision.
24
And at this time you have to remember that Bobby Kennedy was
25
overseeing this deal, presumably for his brother, and he was
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 50955 DocId:32204971 Page 12
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
410 fust Steel, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WAND & PAUL
Phone (Arda 202) 544-6000
יו
ניו
1
-
2
SECKEI
11
part of that Special Group. He called the meetings, he presided
he did a number of things.
Q Were there any other occasions that you can recall
in which the possibility or the subject of assassination of
10
5
Fidel Castro was discussed?
6
A
7
Q
No, not really.
You referred to this as the first occasion.
8.
A
This is the first
9
Q
Was there a second?
10
A
the first time I knew about it or even heard it
二
discussed.
12
Q
Well, prior to the investigation that is currently
13
underway
I am referring now to our Commission's investigation
14
were there any other occasions in which this subject came
to your attention after this discussion in the garden in
16
Paris?
A
18
The only other thing that came to my attention was
that the decision was made not to provide him with this sight
that he wanted.
Whether that is right or wrong, I don't know,
20
but that is what I was told.
21
2
When did you learn that?
22
A
Oh, I would assume in
must have been early 1964,
23
around February, something like that.
24
Q
Off the record.
25
(Discussion off the record.)
NW 50955 DocId:32204971 Page 13
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
