178-10002-10279
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date:
8/31/201
Agency Information
AGENCY:
RECORD NUMBER:
ROCKCOM
178-10002-10279
RECORD SERIES :
ASSASSINATION FILES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:
A-I(J) CORRESPONDENCE--ASSASSINATIONS
Document Information
ORIGINATOR:
ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
DEPOSITION OF WILLIAM STURBITTS
DATE:
04/16/1975
PAGES:
4
SUBJECTS:
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
CIA
STURBITTS, WILLIAM
FITZGERALD, DESMOND
KENNEDY, ROBERT
CUBAN EXILES
DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS:
CURRENT STATUS:
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS:
DEPOSITION
Secret
1A; IB; IC
Redact
02/13/2001
Selected pages from deposition. Full document is number 1781000210091.
v9.1
NW 50955 DocId:32275454 Page 1

410 First Stract, S. E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
SECRET
1
CONTENTS
2
Deposition of
מו
William C. Sturbitts
4
Examination by Counsel
For the Commission

5

(AFTERNOON SESSION Page 58)
6
William C. Sturbitts (Resumed)
7
58
8
9
178-10002-10091
10
11
12
178-10002-10215
13
14
15
178-10002-10279
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
25
SECRET
NW 50955 DocId: 32275454 Page 2
2
A

410 First Street, S. E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
1 חפר
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
6
5
4
2
SECRET
PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION
ON CIA ACTIVITIES
Langley, Virginia
Wednesday, April 16, 1975
Deposition of WILLIAM C. STURBITTS, called for
7
examination by Counsel for the Commission on CIA Activities,
8
9
the witness being duly sworn by Thomas C. Hogan, a Notary
Public in and for the State of Virginia, in the offices of the
10
Central Intelligence Agency, Langley, Virginia, at 9:50
11
o'clock a.m., on Wednesday, April 16, 1975, the proceedings
12
being taken down in stenotype by Ruth G. McClenning, and
13
>
transcribed under her direction.
14
APPEARANCES:
15
16
151
!
On behalf of the Commission:
GEORGE MANFREDI, ESQ.,
ROBERT B. OLSEN, ESQ.
i
la
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
NW 50955 DocId:32275454 Page 3
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
1

010
10 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PALUI.
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
1
2
Thereupon,
SECRET
PROCEEDINGS
2
3
CH
4
5
6
7
8
WILLIAM C. STURBITTS,
called as a witness by Counsel for the Commission on CIA
Activities, and having been first duly sworn by the Notary
Public, was examined and testified as follows:
EXAMINATION BY COUNSEL FOR THE COMMISSION
BY MR. MANFREDI:
9
Q
Mr. Sturbitts, will you state your full name for the
10
record?
11
A
William C. Sturbitts.
12.
Q
Mr. Sturbitts, do you recall when we spoke some
13
:
weeks ago you signed a document entitled, "Advice and
14
Waiver"?
15
A
Right.
16
Q
You understand that document is still in effect?
17
A
Sure.
18
Q
Mr. Sturbitts, by whom are you currently employed?
19
A
You mean the Agency or
-
20
Q
That is right.
21
A
Central Intelligence Agency.
22
Q
And what is your current position with the Agency?
23
A
I am a Special Assistant, Latin America, for
24
Economic Intelligence Collection and Operations.
25
Q
And would you briefly review for me the history of
NW 50955 DocId:32275454 Page 4

410 First Street, S. E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
SECKET
1
your employment with the Agency?
2
A
When I first came in I was in the Intelligence
3
3 Directorate for approximately ten years and I was put on special
4
detail, special indefinite detail, in the Deputy Director, Plans,
5
which is now the Directorate of Operations.
6
Q
What year were you put on that detail?
7
A
I guess it was 1964, January, I believe.
8
Q
And what did that detail involve?
9
A
Cuban operations, economic warfare.
10
Q
And how long were you on that detail?
11
A
I was in the Cuban operations for nine years.
12
Q
Between 1964 and 1973?
13
A
(Nods in affirmative.)
14 ||
Q
And in 1973 did you assume your current position?
15
A
Yes, January.
16
Q
Now, while you were on special detail
to the DOD?
17
A
Yes.
18
2
Were you stationed in Washington?
:
19
A
Yes.
20
Q
And did you commute with some frequency to Miami?
21
A
Yes.
22
Q
Were your activities in Miami in any way connected
23
with the operations of the Miami Station?
24
A
In some way. My responsibilities were worldwide.
25
I took temporary duty predominantly in Europe, and then Miami.
NW 50955 DocId:32275454 Page 5
SECRET
1
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
SECRET
1
Most of my operations were run out of Europe.
2
Q
Run out of
3
A
Europe. Some were run out of Miami but the big ones
4
were run out of Europe.
5
Q
Well, in the course of your activities with respect
6
7
to Cuba did you have occasion to become familiar with the
operations of the Miami base?
8
A
Yes.
9
Q
And the situation in the Cuban community in Miami?
10
A
Yes, sir.
!
11
11
Q
During the nine years you were with DDO's Cuban
12
operations, who was who were the chiefs of the Miami
13
Station?
14:
A
I think in 1963 Ted Shackley was the Chief and he
15
16
was followed by I can't think of his name. I should know
it. Well, I will come back to that.
WARD & PAUL
17 1
:
18
Q
Then, the next Chief of Station was Paul Henze.
What years was he Chief?
19
A
I think Paul was there about a year and a half.
He
20
left in 1968 when we reduced the size of the Station.
Let's
21
say Henze was there from 1966 to 1968.
And then Jake Esterline.
22
He was Chief of Station from 1968 to 1973.
23
Q
Now, what was the formal title of the group to which
24
you were assigned for the 9-year period?
25
A
Well, when I first came in it was known as the
NW 50955 DocId:32275454 Page 6
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
4

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUI
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
SECRET
5
:
1
Special Activities Staff. It was headed by Desmond Fitzgerald.
2
And then, I believe after that it became the Cuban Operations
3
ליו
Group.
4
Q
5
Now, was this a special group within the DDO or was
it attached to one of the area divisions?
6
A
No. Following the Bay of Pigs, they created a thing
7
8
called Task Force W which was headed by Bill Harvey.
that when Harvey left, he went to Chief of Station, Rome,.
And
9
10
11
and Fitzgerald took over, it became Special Activities Staff.
It wasn't attached to anything except it reported to the
Deputy Director, Plans.
12
Q
And that was Mr. Karamessines?
13
A
Yes.
Well, it was Helms at that time back when it
14
was first created. Helms was DDP at that time.
15
Q And Task Force W was created immediately after the
16
Bay of Pigs?.
17
A
Well, not immediately.
I think sometime around
18:
in the Bay of Pigs was in April. I think this was created in
19
September, something like that, 1961.
20
Q
And that subsequently became the Special Activities
21
:
Staff?
22
A
Special Activities Staff and consequently became the
23
Cuban Operations Group. As the Cuban Operations Group it went
24
back into the Western Hemisphere Division.
25
Ω
And what was the date of that reorganization?

First Strect, S.E., Washington, DC. 2000.1
NW 50955 DocId:32275454 Page 7
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

WARD & PAUI
Phone (Arca 202) 544-6000
SECKET
6
1
A
Well, let's see. I would say that was probably around
2
1965 because Fitzgerald then became Chief, W.H., and then
ליו
3
later DDP.
4
Q
Now, Mr.Harvey
do you recall what position Mr.
5
Harvey held after he left Task Force W?
6
A
Yes. He was Chief of Station, Rome.
7
Q
And is he still with the Agency?
8
A
Oh, no. He retired a long time ago.
9
Q
Do you know where he lives at the present time?
10
A
Frankly, I don't. I have an idea where he lives.
11
12
He went to work for a friend of mine who had a law firm.
Harvey is a lawyer.
13
Q
Indianapolis area?
14
A
Yes, some place around there. It is in the midwest,
Indiana.
1.5
Ω
What was the role that was assigned to Task Force
16
W?
17
A
It was the overall Cuban operations.
18
Q
Did the Miami
when was the Miami Station estab-
19
lished?
20
A
Well, I think they had a forward operatio-s base down
21
there about 1960 which was small, in Coral Gables.
22
Ω This was, then, prior to the Bay of Pigs?
23
A
Oh, yes.
24
Q
Now, in addition to Task Force W, was the Miami
25
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

First Stucet, S.C., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 50955 DocId:32275454 Page 8
SECRET
1
Station running any operations against Cuba?
2
A
You mean prior to the Bay of Pigs?
ניו
Q
Yes.
4
A
I really don't know. It was a small
it was a
7
forward base and it was more or less as I recall, a support type
6
thing.
7
::
Q
Well, after the Bay of Pigs when Task Force W was
8
established, did it have sole responsibility for Cuban
9
operations?
1C
A
Yes.
11
Q
Or was that shared with the Miami base, Miami
12
Station?
i
13:
A
No. The Miami Station was under Task Force W.
14
Q
All right. Would that also be true of the Special
15
.:
Activities Staff, the Cuban Operations Group?
16
A
Right, except that at the present time the Station
:
17
has no Cuban operations.
18
2
I understand that. When were Cuban operations termi-
19
nated?
20
A
At the Station? Let's see.
Sternfield went down
21
there in 1972. It was during fiscal year '72. I think it was
il
22
in early 1973. It was a gradual reduction.
23
Q And have those operations been terminated entirely
24
or are they now run out of the Washington area?
25
A
All Cuban operations are run out of Washington.

NW 50955 DocId:32275454 Page 9
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

First Street, S. E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
8
1
There are no more paramilitary operations, that type of thing.
2
Q
But there are some. Cuban operations being run out of
3
the Washington area?
4
A
Right.
::
5
Q
Is that correct?
6
A
Right.
Worldwide.
:
7
Q
Mr.Sturbitts, in the last couple of weeks you may
8
have seen some allegations in the press about possible assassina-
9
tion attempts that have been mounted or alleged assassination
10
attempts that have been mounted
11
A
Right.
12
Ω
against Fidel Castro. In the course of your
13
activities with respect to Cuba, did you ever learn of any such
14
attempts?
15
A
Well, let me answer it this way. I wouldn't say
16:
attempts. I know there was discussion.
"Attempts" is too
17
strong a word.
18
Q
Well, can you place in time your first knowledge of
19
any such discussions?
20
A
Well, the first knowledge I had of any discussions,
21
22
I was on TDY and this was October, November, 1963, with Fitzgerald
in Paris.
And I knew that he was going to meet let me put
23
it another way. I had overheard that discussions were going on
24
with a member of Castro's military but that he wanted, as
25
I recall, he wanted some British
I mean Belgian rifles and
:
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

NW 50955 DocId: 32275454 Page 10
WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
SECRET
1
a telescopic sight.
2
Q
Who wanted them?
כיז
3
A
This military guy that was in Fidel's
at one time he was a commandante. Now, I knew that was going
9
I think
5
:
6
on. I didn't participate in it because I was there for another
reason. And I know that subsequent to that time that Fitzgerald
7
8
met with him again and as I recall, as the personal representa-
tive of the Attorney General, Bobby Kennedy.
9
I provided all those files. There are 19 volumes that
10
11
we gave to your people. But I don't know who was reviewing
them. I think Belin was going to do it himself.
12
Q
Yes. He is. He is doing it himself.
:
13
You said there were 19 volumes of documents with
14
respect to this.
15
A
19 files, manila.
16
Q
All having to do with possible assassination?
17
A
All having to do with this whole time period and
12
1.9
can we go off the record for a minute?
(Discussion off the record.)
20
BY MR. MANFREDI:
21
Ω
The first knowledge of such conversations that you
!
22
23:
had, I take it you obtained on a trip to Europe with Mr.
Fitzgerald?
24
A
I simply overheard it, that is right.
25
2
And who were the parties to the conversation you over-

S. E., Washington, DC. 2000.3
NW 50955 DocId:32275454 Page 11
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
9

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
SECRET
10
1
heard?
2
A
A fellow named Nestor Sanchez.
3
Q
And Mr. Fitzgerald?
4
A
Yes, and I really can't recall some of the other
5
people. We were we had just moved the Station at that time,
6
it
7
--
8
9
10
11
in Paris, out of the Embassy into the old Rothschild Palace
and we felt that it was probably bugged, so all conversations
took place we walked around the garden and tyat type of
thing, and, you know, I was walking with somebody, somebody
was in front of me, and you just overhear conversations.
Q
This was in Paris?
12
A
Yes.
13
Q
I see.
14
Mr. Sanchez
was he a member of the military?
15
A
No. Mr. Sanchez was in the Special Activities Staff.
16
He was stationed in Washington.
And he was in contact with
17
Cuban military-type.
18:
Q
Was it your understanding that the Agency had received
19:
instructions with respect to this activity from another
20
component of the Government?
21
A
:
22
Well, let me put it this way. I don't know whether
they received instructions.
I have to assume, and I am pretty
23
positive, that this was a result of a Special Group decision.
24
And at this time you have to remember that Bobby Kennedy was
25
overseeing this deal, presumably for his brother, and he was

NW 50955 DocId: 32275454 Page 12
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
SECKET
11
ام
2
part of that Special Group. He called the meetings, he presided
he did a number of things.
3
Q Were there any other occasions that you can recall
in which the possibility or the subject of assassination of
5
Fidel Castro was discussed?
€
A
7
Q
No, not really.
You referred to this as the first occasion.
8.
:
A
This is the first
9
2
Was there a second?
10
A
the first time I knew about it or even heard it
二
discussed.
12
Q
Well, prior to the investigation that is currently
13
underway
I am referring now to our Commission's investigation
14
15
were there any other occasions in which this subject came
to your attention after this discussion in the garden in
16
Paris?
17
A
18
The only other thing that came to my attention was
that the decision was made not to provide him with this sight
19
that he wanted.
Whether that is right or wrong, I don't know,
20
but that is what I was told.
:
21
When did you learn that?
22
A
Oh, I would assume in must have been early 1964,
23
around February, something like that.
24
Off the record.
25
(Discussion off the record.)
:
NW 50955 DocId:32275454 Page 13
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

WARD & PAUI
Phone (Area 202) 54-1-0000
::
MR. MANFREDI: On the record.
12
2
BY MR. MANFREDI:
3
ניז
Q
Mr. Sturbitts, are you familiar with a gentleman by
/
the name of Frank Sturgis?
5
A
Indeed.
6
Q
Is your familiarity based on what you have read in
7
the press?
8
A
No. It is what is contained in the files.
9
Q
Have you caused a search to be made of CIA files,
10
particularly the files of the Western Hemisphere Division,
二
in an attempt to determine whether Mr. Sturgis ever had any
12
13
A
connection with the Agency?
I have.
14
Q
What were the results of that search?
5
:
A
Absolutely no connection, never has been.
16
Q
When we talk about connection, are we talking about
17
an employment relationship?
18
A
That is what I am speaking of.
19
Q
Was Mr.Sturgis ever an independent contractor of
20
the Agency?
21
A
No.
i
22
Q
Was he ever a contract employee?
23
A
No.
24:
Was he ever a regular employee of the Agency?
25
A
No.

First Street, S.E., Washington, DC. 20003
NW 50955 DocId:32275454 Page 14
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

Fiat Stract, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD A PAULL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
SECRET
13
::
r
1
:.
Q
Was he ever hired to do any piecework for the
2
Agency?
3
ניו
A
Not to my knowledge.
4
Q
Do you know whether or not Mr. Sturgis ever partici-
5
pated in any type of paramilitary or other operation against
6
Cuba?
7:
A
On his own behalf he did, not on behalf of this
8
:
Agency.
9
Q
How did you learn of those operations?
10:
A
11:
Through the newspaper. And through FBI reports.
Now, are these recent FBI reports?
12
A
Oh, no. These go back I know at one time, the
13
4
thing that comes to mind, I think he made a leaflet drop
over Cuba and this was subsequently reported in the press and
15
by the Bureau office in Miami.
16:
Q
Do you know who financed his activities?
:
7
A
I have no idea.
a
Q
Is it possible that Mr. Sturgis' activities were
19
indirectly financed by the Agency through
7
20
A
21
I don't see how. Frank Sturgis is a soldier of
fortune; has been. He has constantly tried to associate himself
22
with the Agency. When I went through his file they wanted me
23
to classify the file and the way I classified it was "don't
24
:
destroy it, he is an intelligence nuisance."
25
Off the record.
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
SECRET
14
(Discussion off the record.)
2
:
MR. MANFREDI: On the record.
3
BY MR. MANFREDI:
2
Have you caused the Agency records with respect to Mrl.
5
Sturgis to be assembled in any one location?
6
A
Yes. Ihave custody of them.
7
Q
And what is the volume of that material?
8
A
As I recall, there are five volumes.
Your Committee |
9
called for them the other day after the article in the paper,
10
I guess it was last Saturday. They called for them Monday and
12
they returned them Monday afternoon.
12
WARD A PALI
Q
13
A
Do you know who examined those files?
No, I don't.
14
Q
You indicated a moment ago that Mr. Sturgis contacts!
15
the DCD office in Miami with some frequency, is that correct?
16
A
Well, not great frequency but he does with tidbits
17
of so-called information.
18
Is this information limited to narcotics, alleged
19

narcotics traffic?
20.
A
Recently it has been.
21
Q Has Mr. Sturgis been encouraged by the DCD office
;
22
in Miami?
23
A Mr. Sturgis has been told by the DCD office in Miami
24
to take his information to the Drug Enforcement Agency or the
25
FBI.
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library
S.E.,

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
5
Ω
Do you know whether
or not they consider him an
2
established contact?
3
כיו
A
No manner.
4
Do they have any Q
do they periodically seek to
5
collect information from Mr. Sturgis?
6
that we have
A
7
3
9
10
11
I can't speak to that but the records
don't reflect anything like that. Before they would contact
somebody in that context, knowing that there is a 20l file
on Sturgis, they would have to coordinate with the Latin
American Division before they did anything since we do hold
the file.
12
Q
Would you briefly explain what a 20l file is?
13
A
14
A 201 file is a personnel file. It consists of any
information relating to an individual appearing in the press
5
as a result of other agency reporting and that type of thing.
.i
26
Q
Personnel or personality file?
171
A
Personality file, I should say.
Excuse me.
18
Ω
Do you know whether or not there is any connection
19
or relationship between Eugenio Martinez and Mr. Sturgis?
20
A
Well, I will say this. Obviously, they do know
21
each other. They have to know each other from their days
22
in Cuba.
23
Ω Do you know whether or not Mr. Sturgis ever partici-
24
pated with Martinez in raids against Cuba?
25
A
No. As I recall, we employed Martinez around 1961,

Page 17
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

WARD & PAUL
410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

16
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

1
I guess, and he was in our maritime activities. He was a
2
boat captain eventually. And he did participate in infiltrations
ניז
4.
and exfiltrations and perhaps one or two raids, hit and run,
sabotage-type actions against Cuba. Sturgis never engaged in
5
any of these things. He never did it for us nor did he ever
6
7
do it on any of our boats, planes, or anything that belongs
to the Agency.
8
Q
When Martinez would run such an operation or captain
9
10
a boat on such an operation, would he be charged with putting
together his own crew?
:
יו
A
No. He had an assigned crew and every boat had a
12
Case Officer operating either out of the
probably out of
13
the Miami Station. Sometimes I would assume that we did have
14
some people in the Key West base. But he, Martinez, would receive
25
his instructions and briefings from his Case Officer.
16
Q
So it is likely that he could have brought Sturgis
17
along on any of these operations?
1
18
A
Absolutely unlikely. Oh, the guy whose name I was
19
trying to think of, Chief of Station, John Dimmer.
heet, Wash 200
20
Q
And that would be for a period of time between
21.
Shackley and Henze?
22
A
Yes.
23
Ω
1964 to 1966?
24
A
Something like that.
25
Q
Would you describe briefly for me the nature of the

NW 50955 DocId:32275454 Page 18
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

WARD & PAUI.
Phone: (Arca 202) 344 6000
7
1
CV
2
10
4
SECKEI
17
activities conducted by the Special Activities Staff during
your and subsequently the Cuban Operations Group during
your 9-year tenure with those groups.
A
5
6
Well, there was it was an across-the-board
intelligence operation consisting of collection of foreign
positive intelligence, counterintelligence, paramilitary
7
8
activities, covert action, economic activities. That is about
the breadth of the thing.
!
9
2
10
A
Now, these were all conducted through the DDO?
Right.
11
Q
12
operations.
Now, let's speak for a moment about the paramilitary
Were these operations run out of southern
13
Florida?
14
A
Right.
Q
And in particular out of the Miami Station?
16
A
Yes.
171
Q
Were there any other CIA facilities in that area of
18
the country that participated in these activities?
19
A
Not to my knowledge..
:
20
Q
Were there any southern harbors other than Miami
:
21
that were used in these activities?
22
A
Well, we had activities down in the Keys also. As
23
I said, we did have a Key West base.
24
25
2 Were there any other bases in that area of the
country that were utilized in these operations?
10001110101
NW 50955 DocId: 32275454 Page 19
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

WARD A PAULL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000
SECKEI
18
::
r
1
:.
Q
Was he ever hired to do any piecework for the
2
Agency?
3
ניו
A
Not to my knowledge.
4
Q
Do you know whether or not Mr. Sturgis ever partici-
5
pated in any type of paramilitary or other operation against
6
Cuba?
7:
A
On his own behalf he did, not on behalf of this
8
:
Agency.
9
Q
How did you learn of those operations?
10:
A
11:
Through the newspaper. And through FBI reports.
Now, are these recent FBI reports?
12
A
Oh, no. These go back I know at one time, the
13
4
thing that comes to mind, I think he made a leaflet drop
over Cuba and this was subsequently reported in the press and
15
by the Bureau office in Miami.
16:
Q
Do you know who financed his activities?
:
7
A
I have no idea.
a
Q
Is it possible that Mr. Sturgis' activities were
19
indirectly financed by the Agency through
7
20
A
21
I don't see how. Frank Sturgis is a soldier of
fortune; has been. He has constantly tried to associate himself
22
with the Agency. When I went through his file they wanted me
23
to classify the file and the way I classified it was "don't
24
:
destroy it, he is an intelligence nuisance."
25
Off the record.
SECRET
Photocopy from
Gerald Ford Library

A10 Fiat Stract, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
WARD & PAUL

WARD & PAIJI.
Phone (Arca 202) 544-6000
SELKEI
1
2
At the present time, how large is that Cuban community
2
in Miami? Do you have any idea?
כיו
A
Well, it is extremely large.
I would think it is
:
4
probably
I was trying to think. I would say up towards a
5
military people