180-10143-10100
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

-2000
SECRET

meticulous files
memo to Legat at same
time as cable.

SET

10143-10100

Goldsmith
3
2
Notes re Hardway summary of am.c.
tapes, transcripts, & cables. - preassessination
SECRET
transcriptions generally are summaries
rather than verbatim.

not
2. previously translated materials are
in the materials that Hardway examined.
3. marginal notations are common.
4. Spanish transcripts are of poor
quality. - why would there even be
any Spanish Transcripts.

are missing.
that [intercept] activity
weekend.
5. transcripts for 9/5 & 9/16/63
Holmer' explanation is
two may have been shut down on
0002451

translated
6. 9/27/63
Shinich
transcription
1. M.D. seeking visa to Odessa
۶. Same person calls back at 10:37 4.m.
3. another call 1:25

CHO 4:05pm
4:16 pm
4. Duran to Soviet emb. - Conversation
Spanish w. LHO, who was then at
Cuban encl. apparent that CHO was talking at amb cord
Y. Sovemb→ Duran re LHO. (CHO
still at emb)
9/28/63.
Win South serige to il Copa andereted in 2000

applicable to 9/60
K. Duran Jovenib; CHO talks to S.O.
(CHO to join in camb

8. 10/1/63. apparent that who was talking at foramb
1. 10:31 am - possibly CHO calling women
for info re teley. from Wish.
re teley. - who used in reference
[Tor previously translated

ALW
نابل
9. 10/3/63
0002452
Call to
10. 10/1/65
10/3/18
DIR 72527

SECRET
Sou emb: re viva
[previously translated]

#6344 re Phillips
6374 Missing - again
re Phillips

11. Correct dates of phots 10/1 + 10/4 or 10/4+10/4.
10/8/63 cable 64TS MCS→ HQ
repts CHO visit.
abolition of routing slip on cable
10/10/63
BIR 74830 19 MCS re background on
wind LHO & instructed MCS - re LHO & persing
info to all agencies loudly...
10/13/63 DIR ihe continued
description.
13. What was Excommun w/
Comppt?

14 of Scottis vuggetion of a @ file on
CHO.

15.18. 10/10/63 - HQ dissemination to other agencies,
#54673 re CHO

16. 10/15/63 MLJ 6534 requesting pouched
photo of CHO
- No response to Lis cable.

Obthin
Mann
10/16/63 Scott meno to Som. re
17 LHO ; no mention of visar aspect.
The O file - all data re LHO
Obtain Sout Contacts file - is 1+2
Alisence of routing tips on some cable

0002453
LAISON
SECRET [unphrased?
Is
is this marginal notes
TP.T
LAINTING - transcript, etc/ time

[unilateral] operation
[demonstration] Agents.

first trans. t action (consult?)-

Post Ass'nu:
Nature of checks. -DIR 84886
Μεχί 7023 ECASURE/date correc
"nat recorded this date"
7024 - All info reported
[prior to 27th codis etc]
by [Liaison]
SECRET
IMPORTANCE
Bishop.
P.T.

SECRET
70.25- report of 9/28 +10/1
cano by A. Q.
0024048-Call [Mexican] pick-up
: af 9/28

:
when first realized photos!
~ LHO

7033 reports all calls.
2034 recheck of all photos,

0002455
I General.
A. duties
B. typical day.
II People
list
SECRET
←
III the survellance opsi

SECRET
2/14118
*
09892456 Briefing on 201's.
Bill Donley - former op off
Lee Coul]
Virginia Jones
basis for opening
a. operational interest
(access) (trace)
b. tracking
c. CIS (threat)

generally amassed material
in indexes brought together
into 201. - actual process
of opening only takes an
hr.on or so.
came in in
When MC report
10/9 there was a respon~
tere is there a document re
this trace?

opened by
A. case offiken.
-
Mick secenario - judgement
call by officer - there may
that be a 201 opened event
through a reliable source
suggest counter intelligence
that type problem.
most 201's are on people
who are being considered
for recruitment.

-2-
-
0002457
:
SECRET
MH ~ necessarily
but would go into an
20,1 open
index
Info would be disseminated.

There are criteria for opening
high lebel commies.
recruiters.
sually opened by operations
3 HANdbook

offices
TEABEarch
↓ zdays?
desk (decision)
HQ
There are yes y tramit
case the co iothe
desk officer.

the 201 is indigenous to DDO.
-Required for clearance.
PRQ part I -Réquisites 201
Part Ⅱ- extended as assesments,
detailed bkgrd analysis,
operational
bjections.
has no need for fan't Th
ميد
kept in 201.
MAINLY Age essentially correct?
IN FIELD. bifurcated files
ce between them.
Index check should lead to
bath.
201- true Name- PRQ It
reference to second.
σερεσετε file PRQ I

-3-
0002458
201 mar
mainly
nat to
of 2015.
SECRET
inly bio-try hand
operations
reason for opening
necessarily in it
~
out
would be a reference to a
cable or document.

201 signed chronologically
as the name comes in.
ywould have this picture ibt
he one could be goutten
required. would you right in
there should be a table of
contents list on a 201 &
computerized.

green list - winbolt subject
compiled as
a
unications
intelligence
signal/commun
may also
go from
"fig leaf" to fully integrated

ongsect files - Policy Coordi
Inpikom Desk - coordi
other agencies a project bile on desk if
seliores agen agency involvement

graphics file do obtain a
great pleal of photos of thin
of food things

SECRET
0002459 intelligence value
be determined might be photos of individus
of pagming nee

Graphics bile not in D.DO.,
in DDI

OCR-office of Central Reference.
Po Part of compartimentation system
refers to cases in top lilee.
opened buy one of top blee
crypt can't be assigned co

is then that is abitamatic
report folet off defection
aloreporting
54.7A form. /1896 form.
