2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 10/19/20

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10131-10324

RECORD SERIES : SECURITY CLASSIFIED TESTIMONY 

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 014724

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: NOSENKO, YURI
TO:
TITLE: TESTIMONY OF YURI IVANOVICH NOSENKO

DATE: 06/20/1978
PAGES: 141

SUBJECTS: CIA, METHODOLOGY
KGB, FILES
KGB, METHODOLOGY
MCMILLAN, PRISCILLA JOHNSON
SOLIE, BRUCE
NOSENKO, YURI, TESTIMONY BEFORE THE COMMITTEE
OSWALD, LEE, RUSSIAN PERIOD
OSWALD, LEE, RUSSIAN PERIOD, DEFECTION TO RUSSIA
MEXICO CITY

DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret
RESTRICTIONS: Consulted
CURRENT STATUS: Withhold
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/21/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: Folder 2 of 2. Box 4

v9.1
NW 50955 DocId: 32277209 Page 1

2 TESTIMONY OF:
3 YURI IVANOVICH NOSENKO -- Resumed
PAGE
2
5
6
7
8
10 EXHIBITS
11 JFK F-2
Marked Received
10
12 JFK F-3 11
13 JFK F-4 18
14 JFK F-5 24
15 JFK F-6 32
16 JFK F-7 49
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
NW 50955 DocId:32277209 Page 2

THOMAS,'srs
retype smnp
EXECUTIVE SESSION
1
2
3 Tuesday, June 20, 197876
4
5 U.S. House of Representatives,
6 Select Committee on Assassinations
7 Subcommittee on the Assassination
8 of John F. Kennedy
9 Washington, D. C.
10 The Committee met, pursuant to recess, at 6:20 o'clock
11 p.m., in Room 1-D, Headquarters, Central Intelligence Agency,
12 Langley, Virginia, the Honorable Louis Stokes (Chairman of
13 the Committee) presiding.
14 Present: Representatives Stokes, Preyer, Burke, Fithian,
15 Devine and Sawyer.
16 Also present: G. R. Blakey, G. Cornwell, M. Goldsmith,
17 R. Morrison, E. Berning, M. Jackson, J. Smith, K. Klein and
18 S. Brady.
19
20 The Chairman. The Committee will come to order.
21 At this time the Committee will resume its sitting. We
22 jare still in executive session by virtue of the resolution
13 adopted by the Committee this past evening.
24 At this time the Chair will recognize Mr. Blakey.
25 Mr. Blakey. Off the record.
NW 50955 DocId: 32277209 Page 3

1 (Discussion off the record.)
2 The Chairman. Anything further?
3 Bring the witness in.
4 Let the record reflect that the Committee has resumed its
5 sitting and at this time the witness, Yuri Nosenko, is back
6 before the Committee once again.
7 Mr. Nosenko, I admonish you that you are still under the
8 oath that you took last night.
9 TESTIMONY OF YURI IVANOVICH NOSENKO -- Resumed
10 Mr. Nosenko. Yes, sir.
11 The Chairman. And at this time, then, the Committee will
12 recognize the counsel for the Committee, Mr. Klein.
13 Mr. Klein. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
14 Good evening.
15 Mr. Nosenko. Good evening, sir.
16 Mr. Klein. You told us that after the assassination
17 you had an opportunity to be present when Oswald's file was
18 brought from Minsk, is that right?
19 Mr. Nosenko. Absolutely right.
20 Mr. Klein. Did you have an opportunity to read the entire
21 file at that time?
22 Mr. Nosenko. No, sir.
23 Mr. Klein. How much of the file did you read?
24 Mr. Nosenko. It was simply looking, page by page, first
25 part of the first volume.
NW 50955 DocId: 32277209 Page 4

1 Mr. Klein. You went through the first part of the first
2 volume, page by page?
3 Mr. Nosenko. Yes, sir.
4 Mr. Klein. Did you go through any of the other volumes?
5 Mr. Nosenko. No, sir.
6 Mr. Klein. You told us that an officer named Matveev
7 took the file away to prepare a summary?
8 Mr. Nosenko. Right.
9 Mr. Klein. Do you know who wrote that summary?
10 Mr. Nosenko. The summary was written by the First
11 Department of the Second Chief Directorate.
12 Mr. Klein. Do you know who, in particular?
13 Mr. Nosenko. No, sir, I do not know.
14 Mr. Klein. And did you ever have an opportunity to read
15 the summary that the First Department prepared?
16 Mr. Nosenko. No, sir; I didn't see it.
17 Mr. Klein. The Russian word "spravka", does that mean
18 Mr. Nosenko. Is summary, right.
19 Mr. Klein. And why were you not able to read the summary
20 that they wrote?
21 Mr. Nosenko. Well, the file was taken in the First
22 Department. I was working in the Seventh Department.
23 Mr. Klein. Did you make any attempt to read it?
24 Mr. Nosenko. No.
25 Mr. Klein. Was it at all unusual that with all your
NW 50955 DocId: 32277209 Page 5

1 involvement in the case you did not have an opportunity to
2 read that file?
3 Mr. Nosenko. It was the decision of the Chief of the
4 Second Chief Directorate, given big importance to this question,
5 that a resume will be prepared by the most prestigious depart-
6 ment, American Department, and that is why we couldn't even ask.
7 Mr. Klein. You didn't even ask to see it?
8 Mr. Nosenko. No.
9 Mr. Klein. So it was not unusual that you were not
10 allowed to see it?
11 Mr. Nosenko. No, it was not unusual.
12 Mr. Klein. You have testified before this Committee that
13 the KGB did not allow Lee Harvey Oswald to defect because he
14 was uninteresting. You have testified the KGB did not even speak
15 to Lee Harvey Oswald because he was uninteresting; and that you
15 decided he was not interesting without speaking to him.
17 Do you know what year Lee Harvey Oswald came to the Soviet
18 Union?
19 Mr. Nosenko. 1959.
20 Mr. Klein. In 1959, approximately how many Americans
21 wanted to defect to the Soviet Union or requested permission to
22 defect?
23 Mr. Nosenko. There was a defectionist, I remember, one
24 of the employees, one of the workers, who was helping to or-
25 ganize the American Exhibition in Moscow, Mr. Webster.
NW 50955 DocId: 32277209 Page 6

1 Mr. Klein. Without giving particular names, how many
2 Americans would you say asked permission to defect in 1959?
3 What would the number be?
4 Mr. Nosenko. These two were known to me -- Oswald and
5 Webster.
6 Mr. Klein. From 1955 to 1960, what would be your best
7 estimate as to how many Americans asked permission to defect
8 to the Soviet Union?
9 Mr. Nosenko. As far as I heard, there I think was one
10 only.
11 Mr. Klein. One other, meaning three altogether.
12 Mr. Nosenko. One besides Oswald and Webster, what I
13 know.
14 Mr. Klein. Three?
15 Mr. Nosenko. T hree.
16 Mr. Klein. Of the three, was Oswald the only one turned
17 down because he was uninteresting?
18 Mr. Nosenko. Right.
19 Mr. Klein. Do you know any other defector who was ever
20 turned down because he was uninteresting?
21 Mr. Nosenko. No.
22 Allow me to tell, as you have seen, and you told yourselves,
23 how many Americans are defected. It is a very rare occasion and
24 KGB prefers defection when they are planning, they want, these
25 types of defectors, they like and invite those people who can
NW 50955 DocId:32277209 Page 7

1 give them certain information which is valuable.
2 Mr. Klein. Do you recall telling this Committee yesterday
3 that up until 1960 the Seventh Department was recruiting
4 left and right?
5 Mr. Nosenko. Absolutely right.
6 Mr. Klein. And that you recruited a woman in Utah who was --
7 Mr. Nosenko. I simply had given example of this recruit-
8 ment which took place up to 1960. When Seventh Department was
9 recruitng and giving files to the Intelligence Service, First
10 Chief Directorate, not asking them before, is it person will
11 be for them valuable or not.
12 Mr. Klein. And that KGB officers were getting bonus
13 and promotions when they induced people to recruit?
14 Mr. Nosenko. Right.
15 Mr. Klein. And despite that, Lee Harvey Oswald, when
16 he asked to defect, you turned him down without even speaking to
17 him, to find out if he had any information; is that right?
18 Mr. Nosenko. Sir, we had quite a few recruitments in 159,
19 a very big amount of them in '59 -- very interesting, much,
20 much more interesting -- professors and teachers -- and
21 even was a Co-op from CIA -- we had quite a few recruitments
22 and Oswald was nothing on this base, on this foundation.
23 Mr. Klein. Would the KGB have any interest in an
24 American student?
25 Mr. Nosenko. As I told you yesterday, KGB interested in
NW 50955 DocId: 32277209 Page 8

1 students, but particularly those students who are studying
2 the Russian language, Russian history, Russian economy.
3 Mr. Klein. And would they have any interest in an
4 American who had strong anti-American views and who was a
5 professed Marxist? Would they have any interest in that
6 kind of person?
7 Mr. Nosenko. Here were are coming to a very interesting
8 and sensitive question. From mid-1950, by the order of
9 Central Committee Communist Party, Soviet Union, KGB was
10 prohibited to make any approachment and recruitment of
11 members of the Communist Party of the West.
12 Mr. Klein. I am not asking about a member of the
13 Communist Party.
14 Mr. Nosenko. Your question is, and if he is some type
15 of Marxist here, the question maybe he is possibly a member
16 of Communist Party, and to check it for KGB very difficult
17 if he is a member of Communist Party or not of his country.
18 Mr. Klein. Would they ask him if he is a member of
19 the Communist Party?
20 Would they check it?
21 Mr. Nosenko. No, they would not ask him.
22 Mr. Klein. They wouldn't ask him?
23 Mr. Nosenko. No.
24 Mr. Klein. Would the Soviet Union be interested in
25 someone who was in the military and worked with radar equipment?
NW 50955 DocId:32277209 Page 9

1 Mr. Nosenko. It depends. If he was corporal, private,
2 is no big interest. If he was officer, maybe they would be
3 interested.
4 Mr. Klein. The fact that he worked with the equipment
5 wouldn't be enough; they would want to know what his rank was?
6 Mr. Nosenko. No, sir; it is not enough because they
7 had sources.
8 Mr. Klein. And in 1959 would the Soviet Union have been
9 interested in someone who served as a radar operator on an air
10 base where U-2s took off and landed?
11 Mr. Nosenko. Yes, sir; it would be very interested.
12 Mr. Klein. It is your testimony that Lee Harvey Oswald,
13 who was a student, who was a professed Marxist, who had --
14 Mr. Nosenio. Students? I never heard that he was a
15 student.
16 Mr. Klein. -- who had been a radar operator and had
17 worked on a base from which U-2 airplanes took off and
18 landed, that he wasn't even interesting enough for the KGB
19 to speak to him, to find out if he knew any of this information?
20 Mr. Nosenko. Mr. Klein, I understand your position,
21 but we didn't know that he had any connection with U-2 at all.
22 flights. That is one thing.
23 And if you, Mr. Klein, are basing on what was written by
24 Mr. Epstein in the book, it is a little bit from the air
25 taken ideas. Mr. Epstein even telling that how important
NW 50955 DocId:32277209 Page 10

1 for KGB to know about such base -- that base. We knew it
2 in '50's when I worked in GRU at the Navy, in 1950, '51, '52.
3 We knew every base and in Japan, at this Atsugi Base, and we
4 knew what kind of airplanes had been. We didn't know about
5 U-2, no. Sure, it is very interesting, but when Oswald
6 applied, requested to stay in the Soviet Union, we didn't know
7 a word about his knowledge, anything concerning U-2 flights.
8 Mr. Klein. And you didn't ask him if he had any kind of
9 information about that when he wanted to defect, is that
10 correct?
11 Mr. Nosenko. No.
12 Mr. Klein. And you told us that one reason that no one
13 was working on Oswald was because all of your people were
14 concentrating on the American Exhibition in 1959, is that
15 correct?
16 Mr. Nosenko. Yes, sir. Not only American Exhibition,
17 there were other tourists and among them were interesting
13 targets, very interesting targets.
19 Mr. Klein. You told us yesterday that things didn't
20 Mr. Nosenko. I can explain you why, because an American
21 Exhibition in Moscow was by the information which KGB had,
22 I don't know how much it's right, how much it's wrong, but it
23 was suspected quite a number of people from American intelli-
24 gence community who were working on American Exhibition in
25 Moscow, and when the work is going on against such targets,
NW 50955 DocId:32277209 Page 11

1 it is not one officer, it is a big amount of people involved
2 on each case, because it is very serious target.
3 Mr. Klein. Do you know what date Lee Harvey Oswald
4 came to the Soviet Union?
5 Mr. Nosenko. No, sir, I do not.
6 Mr.Klein. Mr. Chairman, I would ask that this
7 document be marked for identification and shown to the witness.
8 The Chairman. Without objection.
9 (The document referred to was
10 marked as JFK Exhibit No. F-2
11 for identification.)
12 Mr. Klein. Looking at this document
13 Mr. Nosenko. Right.
14 The Chairman. Did counsel want to identify for the
15 record how the document has been marked?
16 The Clerk. JFK-F-2.
17 Mr. Klein. Looking at this document, does it say on the
18 top "Visa and Registration Office, Interior Department,
19 Executive Committee of the Moscow City Council"?
20 Mr. Nosenko. Yes, sir.
21 Mr. Klein. Do you recognize that type of document?
22 Mr. Nosenko. Yes. It is from Department of giving Visas
23 and Registrations, which is working under auspices of Directorate
24 of Internal Affairs of Moswcow.City.?
25 Mr. Klein. And does this appear to be an authentic
NW 50955 DocId:32277209 Page 12

1 document, an authentic copy of the document?
2 Mr. Nosenko. Sure.
3 Mr. Klein. Looking at Number 8, does it say what
4 date Lee Harvey Oswald came to the Soviet Union for the first
5 time?
6 Mr. Nosenko. October, 1959.
7 Mr. Klein. October what?
8 Mr. Nosenko. October 16, 1959.
9 Mr. Klein. I would ask that this document be marked for
10 identification, Mr. Chairman.
11 The Chairman. Without objection.
12 Would the clerk indicate for the record?
13 The Clerk. JFK-F-3, Mr. Chairman.
14 (The document referred to was
15 marked as JFK Exhibit No. F-3
16 for identification.)
17 Mr. Klein. Looking at the newspaper article clipping, on
18 the right hand side, with the heading "U.S. Fair in Soviet
19 Jammed at Close," do you see that?
20 Mr. Nosenko. Yes, sir.
21 Mr. Klein. And what is the date of that story?
22 Mr. Nosenko. The date is September 4.
23 Mr. Klein. Are you aware of the fact that the American
24 Exhibition ended on September 4, more than a month before
25 Oswald came to the Soviet Union?
NW 50955 DocId:32277209 Page 13

1 Mr. Nosenko. Mr. Klein, I would like you to ask when
2 Americans who were working for this Exhibition left Moscow..
3 Mr. Klein. I will ask you another question.
4 Yesterday, when I asked you if things got back to
5 normal once the fair ended, did you say yes?
6 Mr. Nosenko. No, till they were leave the Soviet
7 Union. No. They are the same targets. Okay, you are right,
8 it is closed September 4th, but does it change the importance
9 of these people against whom KGB was working? They were
10 still in Moscow.
11 Mr. Klein. Do you recall yesterday my asking you, did
12 things in your department get back to normale once the fair
13 ended, and do you recall saying yes?
14 Mr. Nosenko. Well, I meaning fair ended when left all
15 the people involved in work on American Exhibition, Americans
16 when they left, and they were staying quite a long time
17 after it was closed. It was closed for visits for Soviet
18 citizens, but it took quite a time for them to leave.
19 Mr. Klein. You also testified yesterday that Lee Harvey
20 Oswald was allowed to stay in the Soviet Union after he said
21 that he was going to kill himself if they sent him home.
22 You told us that he slashed his wrists and two psychiatrists
23 examined him and both found him mentally unstable.
24 Mr. Nosenko. Right.
23 Mr. Klein. What was the point of having the two
NW 50955 DocId: 32277209 Page 14

1 psychiatrists examine him?
2 Mr. Nosenko. I think simply to be assured that it was
3 right found decision, concerning this person. Two independent.
4 Mr. Klein. After they examined him, the decision was
5 made to let him stay; is that correct?
6 Mr. Nosenko. It is not because of the examination
7 he was allowed to stay, Mr. Klein. You are a little bit mixing
8 things. He was allowed to stay because KGB and Soviet Govern+
9 ment had come to the conclusion if this person will kill
10 himself it will bereaction in newspapers, which can in any way
11 hurt the starting, the warming of Soviet-American relations.
12 Mr. Klein. The Soviets were worried he would kill himself
13 in the Soviet Union?
14 Mr. Nosenko. Right, if they would not allow him to
15 stay.
16 Mr. Klein. Could the KGB have taken him and put him on
17 the next plane out of Russia and thereby ended their whole
18 problem with Lee Harvey Oswald?
19 Mr. Nosenko. It is a very sensitive question. He can
20 jump out of car. If he decided, if he is mentally unstable,
21 you don't know what he will do.
22 Mr. Klein. Do you think the KGB didn't do that because
23 they were worried he might jump out of the car or do something
24 like that?
25 Mr. Nosenko. Simply a mentally unstable person, they
NW 50955 DocId:32277209 Page 15

1 didn't want to go it on any such action.
2 Mr. Klein. They would rather keep him in the Soviet
3 Union?
4 Mr. Nosenko. No, they would rather prefer they washed
5 their hands, Mr. Klein; they are not making decision, KGB.
6 In Soviet Union decisions are made by the Central Committee
7 of the Communist Party, and General Secretary and Politburo,
8 not by KGB. KGB a servant of the Politburo and Central Commit-
9 tee Communist Party.
10 Mr. Klein.. Going by the facts as you have told them
11 to this Committee --
12 Mr. Nosenko. Yes, sir.
13 Mr. Klein. why wasn't he put on a plane and sent
14 back to America?
15 Mr. Nosenko. KGB washed their hands. Then from Intourist
16 it was given information Ministry of Foreign Trade; Ministry
17 of Foreign Trade reported to the Soviet Government. As I said,
18 I assumed the Chairman was surely asked; he told his opinion
19 of the KGB, and up to the Soviet Government how they would
20 decide.
21 Mr. Klein. Could he have been brought to the U.S.
22 Embassy and told them he is an American, "You take care of
23 him; we don't want him"?
24 Mr. Nosenko. It can be done, sure. It can be done, but
25 it wasn't done.
NW 50955 DocId:32277209 Page 16

1 Mr. Klein. Instead they elected to allow him to stay
2 indefinitely in the Soviet Union and they have to worry about
3 him every single day, what an unstable American would do, is
4 that correct?
5 Mr. Nosenko. They didn't allow, KGB didn't allow. Soviet
6 government allowed.
7 Mr. Klein. The facts as you have testified to them are
8 that the KGB allowed this mentally unstable person to stay
9 in Russia, and they sent him to Minsk to live and work in a
10 radio factory. Then the KGB allowed this mentally unstable
11 individual to marry a Soviet woman, and then this mentally
12 unstable individual was allowed to join a hunting club where
13 he had access to a gun.
14 Can you think of any other cases in all the time you
15 worked in the KGB where a mentally unstable person was
16 treated in thiskind of manner?.
17 Mr. Nosenko. I told you I do not know any other cases
18 of mentally unstable, excluding one code clerk, American, was
19 also mentally ill; he was delivered in Soviet Union. I heard
20 it. I never have worked with him, I never have seen him.
21 And the thing is, I am sorry, but you are putting and stressing
22 a number of questioning, and it sounds so peculiar. What does
23 it mean, KGB allow him to marry?
24 Mr. Klein, in the Soviet Union there is by degree of
25 Presidium of Supreme Soviet U.S.S.R. a law allowing marriage of
NW 50955 DocId:32277209 Page 17

1 Soviet citizens with foreign. A foreigner can marry a Soviet
2 citizen, by the law. There is not a thing that KGB can in any
3 way try not to give, not to make it possible, but this is in
4 cases when the person who is marrying a foreigner worked in
5 some sensitive place, let's say, in missiles, rocket
6 industry production, was in process of any place of his work
7 ing seeing classified material. In these cases, KGB will try
8 to put different type of fences. But it is unlawful. In
9 accordance with Soviet law, marriage is allowed; he doesn't
10 need to ask permission of Soviet Government or anyone. And his
11 wife, Marina, wasn't working in any place which was sensitive
12 from the point of view of Soviet security.
13 Mentally unstable it doesn't mean that he is raving
14 mad; it is mentally unstable.
15 Mr. Klein. You testified that not only was Oswald not
16 spoken to when he first said he wanted to defect but even after
17 the decision was made to allow him to remain in the Soviet
18 Union, still nobody from the KGB spoke to him, is that correct?
19 Mr. Nosenko. Yes, sir.
20 Mr. Klein. You also tetified to the extensive resources
21 that were devoted to put physical and technical surveillance
22 on Oswald. You told us the men involved, the time involved,
23 the facilities involved?
24 Mr. Nosenko. Right.
25 Mr. Klein. Do you find great contradiction
NW 50955 DocId:32277209 Page 18

1 Mr. Nosenko. No, sir.
2 Mr. Klein. -- in the fact that, on the one hand, you
3 put all these resources into following Oswald around, trying to
4 see who he talked to and what he does and, on the other hand,
5 you don't even have a person go and talk to him and ask him,
6 "Tell us your background; tell us about yourself."
7 Is there any contradiction?
8 Mr. Nosenko. Even in the United States, yes, sure, for
9 you, for me just now American citizens, yes, sure, but there,
10 no.
11 Mr. Klein. They don't talk to people there?
12 Mr. Nosenko. They can talk and cannot to talk, but I
13 don't see contradiction there. Anyone, any foreigner who will
14 be staying, even if this defector not on his own, but, let's
15 say, KGB pushed him to stay, to defect, he still will be watched
16 and on him will be put this same type of work that was
17 put on Oswald, not less.
18 Mr. Klein. You talk about their society is different than
19 ours. Is it unusual that they allow an American to defect
20 and live there without ever questioning him, to ask him if he
21 is an intelligence agent?
22 Mr. Nosenko. On the contrary, no doubt, let's say he
23 was intelligence agent, what he will tell them that he was.
24 sent with mission as intelligence agent? Why to scare him?
25 Let him live how he wants. We will be watching him. He
NW 50955 DocId:32277209 Page 19

1 will show by his behavior, by his action.
2 Mr. Klein. They purposely don't speak to him; is that
3 your testimony?
4 Mr. Nosenko. In this case they didn't speak with him
5 because he didn't present interest for the KGB and because
6 he was mentally unstable.
7 Mr. Klein. You testified that you read the reports of
8 two psychiatrists who examined Lee Harvey Oswald at the
9 hospital after he cut his wrist, is that correct?
10 Mr. Nosenko. Right.
11 Mr. Klein. You said both found him mentally unstable?
12 Mr. Nosenko. Yes, sir.
13 Mr. Klein. You told us in great detail how this
14 decision was made to have these psychiatrists examine him.
15 I would ask thaththis document be marked for
16 identification.
17 The Chairman. The clerk will identify for the record
18 the number appearing on the document.
19 The Clerk. It will be JFK-F-4.
20 (The document referred to was
21 marked as JFK Exhibit No. F-4
22 for identification. )
23 Mr. Klein. Have you ever seen that document before?
24 Mr. Nosenko. No, sir. I haven't seen it.
25 Mr. Klein. Were you aware that the Soviet Government
NW 50955 DocId: 32277209 Page 20

1 provided certain documents to the Warren Commission in 1964?
2 Mr. Nosenko. No, sir. I wasn't aware of this.
3 Mr. Klein. Looking at that document in front of you
4 Mr. Nosenko. Right.
5 Mr. Klein. is that a hospital record?
6 Mr. Nosenko. Oh, yes, sure. It is a hospital record.
7 Mr. Klein. And whose hospital record? Does it have a
8 name on it?
9 Mr. Nosenko. Yes, sir. It is from Botkin Hospital.
10 Mr. Klein. Whose name is it?
11 Mr. Nosenko. Lee Harvey Oswald.
12 Mr. Klein. Does it say what date he was admitted?
13 Mr. Nosenko. Discharged, admitted 23rd, discharged
14 28th.
15 Mr. Klein. What year is that?
16 Mr. Nosenko. October of 1959.
17 Mr. Klein. And does it have on the bottom the diagnosis
18 why he was in the hospital?
19 Mr. Nosenko. Incised wound of one-third of the left
20 forearm.
21 Mr. Klein. And that date, October of 1959, is that when
22 Oswald first came to the Soviet Union and cut his wrist?
23 Mr. Nosenko. I cannot tell you dates, sir. I do not
24 remember.
25 Mr. Klein. You have in front of you the other document
NW 50955 DocId:32277209 Page 21

1 which told - Number 8 what date he came to the Soviet Union.
2 Is that still there?
3 Mr. Nosenko. No, sir. This is admittance to the hos-
4 pital and dischargement.
5 Mr. Klein. Number 8?
6 Mr. Nosenko. Arrival, October 16.
7 Mr. Klein. And the date on the hospital admittance is
8 what date?
9 Mr. Nosenko. Twenty-third of October.
10 Mr. Klein. And would you turn to the hospital admittance
11 form, the one I just gave you, to the third page, please?
12 Mr. Nosenko. Yes.
13 Mr. Klein. And do you see where it says "History of
14 Present Illness"?
15 Mr. Nosenko. No, I don't see.
16 Mr. Klein. On the third page?
17 Mr. Nosenko. I have the third page.
18 Mr. Klein. It has Number 6 on the top of the page, but
19 it's the third page on the document.
20 Mr. Nosenko. Oh, Number 6, History of Present Illness.
21 Yes. Just a second.
22 Mr. Klein. Would you glance through that and would you
23 tell us if this is the hospital report from when Lee Harvey
24 Oswald cut his wrist and was taken to Botkin Hospital?
25 Mr. Nosenko. Yes, sir.
NW 50955 DocId: 32277209 Page 22

1 Mr. Klein. Now, would you turn to the next to the last
2 page. It has a 13 on the right hand side.
3 Do you see that page?
4 Mr. Nosenko. Yes, sir..
5 Mr. Klein. The next to the last page.
6 Mr. Nosenko. Yes, sir.
7 Mr. Klein. And do you see where it says, two-thirds
8 of the way to the bottom, "Psychiatric Department" underlined?
9 Mr. Nosenko. Yes, sir.
10 Mr. Klein. Would you read what is said under that?
11 Mr. Nosenko. "His mind is clear; perception is correct;
12 no hallucination or deliriums. He answers the questions
13 legible and logically; he has a firm desire to remain in the
14 Soviet Union; no psychiatric symptoms were noted; the patient
15 is not dangerous for other people, his condition permits him
16 to stay in Psychiatric Department by an order of the Assistant
17 to the Chief Physicians, Dr. Kornika. The patient is
18 transferred to the Seventh Ward."
19 Mr. Klein. Is there anything in there to indicate he is
20 mentally unstable?
21 Mr. Nosenko. Here I do not see.
22 Mr. Klein. Does that report indicate that he was normal?
23 Mr. Nosenko. Here I do not see what I have seen. But
24 this you receive from the Soviet Government, and if you think
25 you received the true things, what was in file, you are wrong,
NW 50955 DocId: 3