197-10002-10190
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date : 05/20/97
Page : 1

AGENCY : USA
RECORD NUMBER : 197-10002-10190
RECORDS SERIES : HEADQUARTERS FILES, PENTAGON TELECOMMUNICATIONS CENTER
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : CIA TDCS-3/566,305
DATE : 00/00/63
PAGES : 3
SUBJECTS : WEST GERMANY: SOVIET MILITARY ALERT FOLLOWING KENNEDY
ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : / /
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS:

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED
NW 50955 DocId: 32281398 Page 1

ELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CODERET (SSR/LAST CERMANY/KASTERN ECHOP
SECRET
SLECT HIGHLIGHTS OF MILITARY WEEKLY
SUIDIARY NO. 48
DATE OF
DIFOL 20-26 NOVEMBER 1963
PLACE B
FO FOREIGN DISSEN
REPORT NO. TOCS-3/366,305
DATE DESTE
PRECEDEDICE
REFERENCES
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED
2m 5/14/97
DATE ACO, GERMANY, MUNICH /29 NOVEMBER 1963/ IN TEXT.
APPRAISAL 3, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED/ FIELD REPORT NO. EGK-27396
SOURCE THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION SOURCE CRADNICS ARE DEFOUTIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
OFFICIAL TEST GERMAN SERVICE FROM INFORMANTS OF VARYING
RELIABILITY.

FOLLOWING ARE HIGHLIGHTS FROM THE GERMAN SERVICE MILITARY
WEEKLY SUMMARY NO 48/63, COVERING THE PERIOD OF 20-26 NOVEMBER 63.

1. DURING THE WEEK UNDER REVIEW, THERE WERE NO INDICATIONS
OF PREPARATION FOR ATTACK BY SOVIET BLOC FORCES.

2 PART A. GENERAL.

LAST WEEK'S EXERCISE AND TRAINING ACTIVITIES IN THE SOVIET BLOC
ARMED FORCES WERE NORMAL AND WERE THUS IN KEEPING WITH THE
GENERAL PACE OF TRAINING AT THIS TIME OF YEAR.

SOVIET AND SATELLITE FORCES REACTED TO THE ASSASSINATION OF
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, NOV 22ND, WITH PRE-
CAUTIONARY MEASURES OF A GENERAL NATURE WHICH MAY BE

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
000
GROUP!
DR DIA AGWV/ACDI NAVY A10
:
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
DA IN 157472
SECRET

10-3/560,203
2
INTERPRETED AS A REACTION TO CORRESPONDING STAND-BY
MEASURES OF THE U.S. FORCES.
IT IS EXPECTED THAT IN THE PRESENT SITUATION SOVIET TACTICS
IN THE FIELD OF MILITARY POLICY WILL BE MARKED BY CAUTION.
3. PART B. ARMED FORCES.
A. USSR/EAST GERMAN.
1/ ON THE NIGHT OF 22/23 NOVEMBER, SPECIAL ALERT
MEASURES WERE ORDERED IN THE ORANIENBURG GARRISON FOR NVA
UNITS AND POSSIBLY ALSO FOR SOVIET ARMY UNITS_/SEVERAL BAF-31.
GERMAN COMMENT- THE MEASURE WAS PRESUMABLY TAKEN IN
CONNECTION WITH THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY. IT
APPARENTLY WAS CONFINED TO THE BERLIN AREA.
B. EAST GERMAN.
1/ SINCE MID-OCTOBER 1963, CONTROL POSTS /SO-CALLED
HINTERLANDPOSTEN/ HAVE BEEN STAGGERED IN DEPTHS OF UP TO
1 KILOMETER FROM THE INTERZONAL BORDER DURING WEEKEND NIGHTS.
/SEVERAL F-3/.
PART C. GROUND FORCES.
A. SOVIET.
1/ SUMMAP GERMAN COMMENT ON TRAINING OBPS/.
TRAINING AT LOCAL TRAINING GROUNDS AND NUMEROUS DRIVING
SCHOOLS IS INDICATIVE OF RECRUIT TRAINING. FROM 14 TO 10
MAER BLENENTS OF
GUARDS TANIR AMMY CONGESTED
Page

NW
1001 -1/168.203
EXERCISES, PRESUMABLY AT REGIMENTAL LEVEL, AT IML LETLLINGEA
HEIDE AND ALTENGRABOM TROOP TRAINING GROUNDS.
SINCE 24 NOVEMBER, THERE HAVE BEEN TENTATIVE INDICATIONS
OF ACTIVITY OUTSIDE GARRISONS OF ELEMENTS OF THE 34TH
ARTILLERY DIV. NO OBSERVATIONS HAVE BEEN MADE AS YET
INDICATIVE OF EXERCISES WITH FULL UNITS PARTICIPATING.
5. PART D. AIR FORCES. NO HIGHLIGHTS PROVIDED.
6. PART E. NAVY.
A. SOVIET.
1/ ON 25 NOVEMBER 1963, ONE F-CLASS SUBMARINE, WITHOUT
PT-NUMBER, PASSED NORTHWARD THROUGH THE GREAT BELT. /B-2/
7. PART F. LOGISTICS, AND PART G. PSYCHOLOGICAL
NO HIGHLIGHTS PROVIDED.
FIELD DISTRIBUTION: ARMY, AIR, NAVY, USEUCOM

END OF MESSAGE
ACTION ACCI, SAVY, AF, JCK, C30
IKO, DOSOP
1
DA IN 157472
CLASSIFICATION = DIESEMRAKON CONTROL
