198-10007-10013
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 6/24/201

Agency Information
AGENCY: ARMY
RECORD NUMBER: 198-10007-10013
RECORD SERIES : CALIFANO PAPERS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information
ORIGINATOR:
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: CONTROL OF TRAVEL TO AND FROM CUBA
DATE: 00/00/0000
PAGES: 17

SUBJECTS:
CONTROL OF TRANSFER OF FUNDS
CONTROL OF MOVEMENT OF CUBAN PROPAGANDA
CONTROL OF CLANDESTINE MOVEMENT OF GUERRILLAS AND ARMS
EXCHANGE OF INTELLIGENCE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION
SURVEILLANCE OF CUBAN DIPLOMATIC, COMMERCIAL AND CULTURAL MISSIONS
STRENGTHENING OF COUNTER-INSURGENCY CAPABILITIES
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/09/1998
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: Califano Papers, Box 4, Folder 6. Draft report concerning control of access to and surveillance of Cuba.

NO STATE OBJECTION
TO DECLASSIFICATION
BY DATE 2/14/16

Department of the Army EO 13526
Declassify Exclude Exempt
Authority
Refer To
Review Date UGS By Wil

v9.1
NW 50955 DocId: 32424006 Page 1

22
1. Control of Travel to and from Cuba
Central Intelligence Agency
a. Developed highly useful information on frequency
2 of 9 copies
GROUP 1
xcluded from automatig
mgrading and
eclassification
of Cuban "chartered" flights to Brazil, names and nationalities
of passengers and crew, and lax measures of control followed
by Brazilian authorities. Transmitted this information to
dation chiefs in the Latin American countries of the non-
Brasiliens travelling on these flights.

b. Maintained close watch over travel to and from
Cuba. See Annex B for table of known travel of Latin Americans
during July and August.
As a result of information furnished by him by the
CIA Station in Buenos Aires and with the Station's urging, the
Argentine Minister of Interior indicated that he would make
every effort to prevent Argentine delegates from attending the
International Union of Architects Congress in Havana.

d. At the urging of the CIA Station and the Embassy
the Bolivian Minister of Interior issued in mid-July an order
prohibiting the granting of travel permits to Cuba on other
bloc countries to Bolivian nationals.

NW 50955 DocId:32424006 Page 2
C
SECRE

SECRET
e. Fartly as a result of the efforts of the CIA
station in Santiago, the Government of Chile prohibited the
entry into Chile of organizers of the Cuban sponsored Second
Latin American Youth Congress, which had been scheduled to take
place in Santiago in August. This no one of the factors which
led to postponement of the Congress.

f. After considerable prodding by the CIA Station
and the Embassy the Minister of Public Security of Costa Rica
bas presented legislative proposals to the Costa Rican Assembly
which will require ell persons intending to travel to Comunist
countries to have their travel approved by a newly created
Costa Rican security agency.

g. CIA Station in Mexico City developed information
concerning the clandestine arrival of passengers in Vera Crus
on Cuban merchant ships. Efforts are being made to obtain more
information and to encourage stricter controls by the Nexican
authorities.

Department of State
a. Instructed Embassy Conakry to try to persuade
Guineen authorities to deny use of airport facilities by flights
on Habana-Moscon route. These efforts achieved a temporary
withholding of permission for future regular flights, at least
NW 50955 DocId: 32424006 Page 3

SECRET
until such time as the Soviets develop their own refueling facilities
at Conakry.

b. Instructed Embassy Rio to approach Brazilian
authorities to express our deep concern at the growing frequency
of Cuban non-scheduled flights to Brazil and request their
cooperation in curbing then. Also instructed our Embassies
in several Latin American countries to work with CIA station
chiefs in furnishing the names of nationals of those countries
travelling on these flights to local authorities and urging
then: (1) to institute tighter controls on their own citizens
travelling to Cuba, and (2) to express their concern to the
LAN GOVERNMENT
Brazil'Over Cuban use of Brazil as a way station
for transporting subversives.

c. As a result of representations made to the British
government about Cuban flights to the Cayman Islands carrying
Latin American subversives, the British developed an administrative
scheme which will effectively prohibit the use of British
Caribbean dependencies by Cubana as transit points for passengers.
The British intend to require transit visas of passengers passing
through their areas, and to reject applications for such visas
except in certain special cases. Persons not possessing visas
would be prevented from leaving their aircraft, or would be
NW 50955 DocId: 32424006 Page 4

SECRET
returned to their point of origin.

d. Instructed Embassy Mexico City on August 29 to
inform the Mexican airline CA that the United States is
opposed to a proposal that CMA operate charter flights to carry
refugees from Havana to Central America. CA, as a result,
stated that they had no intention of proceeding further with
this project.

Instructed U.S. Nissions in Curaces and the la gue
to investigate a report that KIM was planning to renew eb
scheduled Curacao-Habana flights and to reiterate US opposition
to resumption of air service to Cuba, KIM assured our Embassy
that there is no plan to initiate service, scheduled or non-
scheduled, co Habans.

f. Instructed Embassy Octava to express our strong
objections to a proposal that a Cubang charter flight pick up
a second group of U.S. students in Montreal to fly then to Cuba,
The flight was not authorized.

g. Instructed Consulate Georgetown to investigato
Cubang approaches to secure flight facilities. Mission reported
on August 1 that the Governor had no knowledge of any talks
between the B.G. Ministry of Communications and the Cuban Govern-
ment regarding landing rights for Cubana planes. The Covernor
NW 50955 DocId: 32424006 Page 5
C

Indicated his intention to inquire further and to keep ua
advised. London reported that neither the Cuban sor the British
Gulane Governments had raised the issue of landing rights with
H.M.C.

h. Urged
governments of Mexico, Canada, Jamaica
and the Netherlands to refuse to assist the Cuban governmen
in its efforts to find a short route for return of the 50 American
students who illegally travelled
uba. Also informed Pan
American Airways that we were opposed to e Cuban request for
a PAA charter flight to fly the students from Habana to New York,

1. Instructed our missions at Port of Spain and
Barbados on several occasions to approach these governmente to
the concern of the U.S. et indications of Cuban interest
in the use of their aviation facilities.

Embassy Port of Spain discussed with the Foreign Secretary
COTT to control move
of Trinidad various legal moves available that would enable
ts of aircraft within their territory,
citing examples of such controle instituted by Mexico, Canada
and Ireland. He indicated receptiveness to the proposal that
the list of suggestions be made available to the aviation officials

J. During a previous reporting period Embassy Santiago
C
NW 50955 DocId: 32424006 Page 6

SECRET
urged the government of Chile to refuse visas to Cuban delegatës
to a preparatory meeting planning for the II Latin Americon
Youth Congress scheduled for August in the Chilean capital.
Inability of Cuban delegates to obtain Chilean visas for this
announcing during August that the meeting had been postponed.
meeting is one of the contributing factors to the Cuban sponsors

k. Sent general instructions to our missions in countries
then to urge the cooperation of governmental authorities in
preventing or discouraging the attendance of their citizens to
which participate in the Internatioml Union of Architects asking
the VII UIA Congress in Habana, September 29-October 4, 1963.
Followed this up with instructions to individual posts to try
where feasible to dissuade architects from free world countries
from serving on the jury for the selection of a Bay of Pigs
monument.

1. Urged Canadian Government to block a plan to
commence food parcel shipments to Cuba, on a Cou
1 basis,
that would have required the establishment of scheduled weekly
charter flights by Canadian planes.
NW 50955 DocId:32424006 Page 7
ひ

SECRET
2. Control of Movement of Cuban Propaganda
Contral Intellicence Agency
Responding to the urging of the CIA Station police
of the State of Guanabara seized large quantities of propa-
ganda brought into Brazil by passengers on the special Cubana
flights. For example, somm 50 pounds of printed propaganda,
vas taken from the various passengers who arrived on the 16
August Cubana flight.

3. Control of Clandestine Movement of Guerrillas end Arms
Department of Defence
*
Continued surveillance of the area surrounding Cuba
during the month of July at the same rate and with the same
cmphasis as prior to 1 July 1963.

b. Continued to maintain U.S. Forces, primarily from
within the Atlantic Command, available to assist other Caribbean
governments in the interception of suspicious craft in
territorial waters, as might be requested. No such requests were
received from any other government during the period covered by
this report. However, U.S. Forces did keep track of the
location of the Soviet merchant freighter MITCHURINSK, which
NW 50955 DocId: 32424006 Page 8

SECRET
was suspected of carrying subversives and arms from Cuba to
British Guiana in wid-July. MITCHURINSK was under U.8.
surveillance from its departure from Havana until United
Kingdom forces assumed the task of keeping this ship under
surveillance upon its approach to Georgetown, British Guiana.
Subsequently, British police search of MITCHURINSK in British
Gulane vaters revealed nothing of a suspicious nature.

Central Intelligence Agency
At the repeated urging of the CIA Station in Lima
the Peruvian Government late in August published a new anti-
terrorists lav providing a penalty of no less than five years
Imprisonment for persons who particiate in guerrilla activities
or in the illegal manufacture of weapons or explosives.

The Peruvian National Intelligence Service is working
on a lead furnished by the CIA Station in Lima concerning a
200 ton vessel reportedly involved in arme traffic.

Department of State
Instructed our Consulate General in Georgetown to
investigate reports that commercial cargoes (which could conceal
illicit arms traffic out of Cuba) bad developed between British
Gulans and Cuba. Investigations to date have been negative.
SECRET
NW 50955 DocId: 32424006 Page 9

SECRET
4. Control of Transfer of Funds
Department of State
Cooperated with the Foreign Assets Control Office of
the Treasury Department in developing blocking controls with
respect to Cuba which went into effect on July 9, 1963.

5. Strengthening of Counter-Insurgency Capabilities
Department of Defence
*
Continued the installation of military comunica-
tions Facilities in Latin America. Operational dates for the
multi-channel radio stations to be installed in Managua,
Nicaragua and Tegucigalpa, Honduras have been delayed to 15
October 1963 and 15 December 1963, respectively because of new
engineering and contractual requirements. Negotiations are
continuing with Colombia and Ecuador for installation of U.S.
military radio facilities. Completion of a now commercial trans-
isthmian cable in the Panama Canal Zone within the coming month
is expected to improve military comunications within the
United States and the Commander-in-Chief, U.S. Southern Command.

b. Continued the surveillance of Cuba by U.S. Forces,
reporting as before to U.S. commanders, organizations and agencies.
SECRET
C
NW 50955 DocId: 32424006 Page 10

Reports
of surveillance have been disseminated to all who have
a requirement to know.

Established a 24 hour per day, 7 days per week duty
watch at the U.S. Military Groups in the Caribbean countries in
conjunction with implementation of the military alerting system.
Continued efforts to staff the U.S. Southern Command Intelligence
Center with properly cleared, trained personnel (this center is
the military focal point for relaying information concerning
the movement of subversives). Filled, partially, the authorized
billets in the U.S. Southern Command Intelligence Center and
cook under consideration the problem of an increase in the billet
structure in the Center. The Commander-in-Chief, U.S. Southern
Command together with his intelligence officer visited Honduras
and Nicaragua and determined that no significant problems existed
which would interfere with effective operations in those
countries.

d. Action previously initiated by the Commander, U.S.
Naval Forces, Southern Command (COMUSNAVSO) to establish a Small
Craft Inspection and Training Team (SCIATT) as a contribution to
the Caribbean Surveillance System is progressing satisfactorily.
NW 50955 DocId: 32424006 Page 11
SECRET

SECRET
-11-
Permanent assignment of U.S. Coast Guard personnel to SCIATT
in the Canal Zone has been approved and the U.S. Coast Guard
has taken appropriate implementing sctions.

e. During the period of this report, the SCIATT con-
ducted an on-the-job training course at Puntarenas, Costa
Rica. Training was given to 13 members of the Guardia Civil
of Costa Rica who were either newly assigned to the 40 foot
Coast Guard utility boats (CGUBe) or were to be assigned as
replacement crew members.

4. A quarterly inspection and evaluation of the CGUBS
provided other Central American countries was conducted during
the period 17 to 31 August by a mobile training tean (MIT)
made up of SCIATT personnel.

g. Continued efforts to improve the internal security
of Latin American armies through the provision of Intelligence
Advisors. Presently there are such advisora assigned to 14
Latin countries, emphasizing counterintelligence and counter-
subversion.

h. During the reporting period MTTs conducted training
in counterinsurgency for the armed forces of Colombia, Bolivie,
Venezuela, Peru and El Salvador.
ECRET
NW 50955 DocId: 32424006 Page 12

SECRET
1. Civic Action HITs were sent to Guatemala, Bolivia,
Colombia, El Salvador, Jamaica and Ecuador.

6. Exchange of Intelligence on Cuban Subversion
Gontzal Intelligence Agency
CIA Stations throughout Latin America continued in a
great majority of countries to furnish to the local internal
security organizations with whom they are in liaison informa-
tion concerning travelers to and from Cuba, as well as such
information es came to CIA's attention concerning the movement
of funds, arms and propagande material. In many instances, the
furnishing of information to the internal security service by
the CIA Station was paralleled by the furnishing of similer
information to the foreign office by the Ambassador or his
representative. The response to this information has varied
greatly. The Central American countries, in general, began to
pay attention to the information and take action on it. At the
during the reporting period
other extreme, the Brazilian Government/showed little inclination
to follow up on the information.

Department of State
a. Reitereted to the Foreign Minister of Perú our
interest in having the facts of the Puerto Maldonado incident
NW 50955 DocId: 32424006 Page 13

brought to the attention of the OAS, and urged that this action
be taken as soon as possible.

b. Urged the Covernment of Guatemala to submit evidence
of communist sctivity to the CAS.

7. Surveillance of Guben Dislomatic, Comoxical and Cultural
Central Intelligency AgeOCT
(To be filled in chay M. Wheeler)
C
NW 50955 DocId:32424006 Page 14

Departuent of State
SECRET
-14-
Instructed Embassy La Pas to follow up closely on
charges of involvement of Cuban mission in internal politics
of Bolivia, and, at the Embassy's discretion, to point out to
Bolivien officials the opportunity for a possible bresk in
relations with Cuba. Embassy Le Paz was not able to press
for a break when the evidence of Cuban intervention did not
prove to be as conclusive as originally reported.

Other Special Actions
Department of State
a. Obtained sction by the COAS on July 3 on the Lavalle
Committee Report trensmitting the document to the governmente
and urging them to implement the specific and general recom-
mendations contained therein as soon as possible.

b. Through Embassy Managua informed the Nicaraguan
Government of the matters which we wanted to have considered
during the informal meeting of the Ministers of Security and
Interior of the Isthmian countries held in Managua, August
26-28 in preparation for the second formal meeting of the
Managua Security Conference countries later this year.
SEGRET
NW 50955 DocId: 32424006 Page 15
ہے

SECRET
Reassured President Schick of Nicaragua in the
most esphatic terms that the Nuclear Test Ban Trenty did not
mean that our attitude toward Castro has altered in the
slightest, and stressed our interest in seeing steady progress
by all the Isthmion countries in implementing the recommenda
tions of the Managua Security Conference to block Cuban
subversive efforts.

d. Explained in detail the nature of the Cuban threat
and the related policy objectives of the U.S., during conversa-
tion in London and in Washington with Mr. Adon Watson, newly
appointed British Ambassador to Cuba.
Doited States Ing

a. The Agency's press service during the reporting
period transmitted 12 articles, commentaries, and backgrounders
on its wireless file service to USIA posts throughout Latin
Anerica for placement in the local newspapers and the Voice of
America Spanish broadcasts to Latin Americs carried a total of
28 commentaries and features on the subject of Cuban-based
subversion in addition to the regular reporting of developments
in the hourly newscasts.
NW 50955 DocId: 32424006 Page 16
SECRET

b. In response to standing Agency instructions to give
special attention to developments related to Cuba-based
subversion, UBIS posts in Latin America were prompt in reporting
incidents and in providing editorial comments from the Latin
American press, all of which was used in the Agency's radio and
press cutput.

The main developments trested in the Agency's radio and
press coverage included Castro's July 26 speech urging revolu-
tions in Latin America, the discovery of terrorist weapons
factories in Guayaquil, the Ecusdorean Vice President's accusion
of Cuban responsibility for terrorism, the statement by State
Department Press Officer Richard Phillips that "potential
subversive agents" from Cuba to the Caribbean area were passing
through Gran Caymen, the expulsion of a Bolivian youth leader
for receiving funds from Cuba, Castro-trained terrorists in
Honduras,/Bolivian protests against weddling by the Coben Embassy
in the miner's strike. A Voice of America roving reporter in
Latin America provided several reports eázfzazies on the
and
Gubversion picture in countries he visited.

c. Ia support of the Agency's effort on Cuban-based
subversion, the publications center in Mexico began work on
NW 50955 DocId: 32424006 Page 17

SECRET
three pamphlets during the period based on Castro's report of
his visit to the Soviet Union (showing that he contradicted
himself in some of bis extravagant claims of Soviet progress).
the losses suffered by Cuban labor under Castro, and the fate
of political prisoners in Cuba. When completed, these pamphlets
will be reproduced and distributed in quantity throughout the
C
NW 50955 DocId:32424006 Page 18
SECRET
