198-10009-10099
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 6/24/201

Agency Information
AGENCY: ARMY
RECORD NUMBER: 198-10009-10099
RECORD SERIES : CALIFANO PAPERS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: MULTIPLE
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 02/00/1963
PAGES: 153
SUBJECTS:
CUBAN MISSILE CRISIS
SITUATION IN LATIN AMERICA
PRESIDENT'S REPORT - SOVIET OFFENSIVE WEAPONS IN
CUBA1962
CUBAN SUBVERSION
SOVIET MILITARY FORCES IN CUBA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: IB
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1998
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: Califano Papers, Box 1, Folder 9. Multiple papers re: classified/secret Congressional testimony
concerning Cuban subversion in Latin America, Cuban military buildup, Soviet military weapons in
Cuba, etc.

JFK Review
Department of the Army EO 13526
Declassify Exclude Exempt
Authority
Review Date 5/11/2015 By Kmen

22
CLASSIFIED TESTIMONY - PART II

NO. SUBJECT: DATE:
1. Statement by LtGen Joseph F. Carroll, DirDIA Undated
before the Cmte on Foreign Affairs, HR, WashDC
2. Statement by the DirCIA for use of the staff of the 7 Jan 63
Preparedness Investigating Subcmte of Senator
Stennis
3. SecDef testimony before House Appropriations Cmte 11 Feb 63
4. SecDef testimony before House Appropriations Cmte 12 Feb 63
5. SecDef testimony before House Appropriations Cmte 13 Feb 63.
:. 6. SecNav testimony before HASC 18. Feb 63
7. Ltr to SecArmy from Mr. Martin, AsstSecState 19 Feb 63
with attached statement by Mr. Martin before
the Latin American Subcomte of HFAC on subject
of communist subversion of the hemisphere
8. SecDef testimony before SASC (Vol. I-A.M.) 19 Feb 63
9. SecNav testimony before HASC 19 Feb 63
10. Statement of SecDef accompanied by General Maxwell 20 Feb 63
D. Taylor, ChJCS
11. Excerpts of Navy testimony before HASC 20 Feb 63
12. SecDef testimony before SASC 21 Feb 63
13. Excerpt of SecAirForce testimony before HASC 21 Feb 63
14. SecDef testimony before SASC (Cuba) 22 Feb 63
15. Statement by the Dir CIA for use of the staff of the 26 Feb 63
Preparedness Investigating Subcmte of Senator (Transmittal
Stennis (Cuban Subversion in LA) Slip)
16. Statement by Secretary of Defense to the Permanent 13 March 63
Subcmte on Investigations of the Committee on Govern-
ment Operations - U.S. Senate
CLASSIFIED TESTIMONY - PART II (Cont'd)

NO. SUBJECT: DATE:
17. Memo for Mr. Bromley Smith from Mr. McGiffert 8 Mar 63
Subj: Cuba with Items 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10,
11, 12, 13 and 14 included as attachments
18. Study on Cuba as a Base for --------prepared by Bob Undated
Mandelstam and LtCol Patchell for use by Sec McNamara
at Stennis Comm hearings, in the form of Memo to Sec/Def
19. Memo for Mr. Robt A. Hurwitch, Subj: Missile Crisis 29 Mar 63
Section of the President's Draft Rept to Congress on US
Participation in the UN During 1963, fr Mr. Califano
w/draft of President's message atchd
Sub
20. Interim Report by Preparedness Inves/Comm of the Comm Undtd
on Armed Services US Senate, on the Cuban Military
Buildup, OATSD(LA) Control # 5812(8)
DATE
MANSMITTAL SLIP 26 Feb 6

TO: Mr. Califano for Secy. Vance
ROOM NO. BUILDING
3E985 Pentagon
REMARKS:

FROM: CIA William A. Tidwell
ROOM NO. BUILDING EXTENSION
Code143 6614
REPLACES FORM 36-8 GPO: 1957-0-439445 (47)
WHICH MAY BE USED.

SECRET
35
286

STATEMENT BY THE DIRECTOR FOR USE OF THE
STAFF OF THE PREPAREDNESS INVESTIGATING
SUBCOMMITTEE OF SENATOR STENNIS

OSA, ASG Control No.519 SECRET
SECRET
25 February 1963

CUBAN SUBVERSION IN LATIN AMERICA

I. Introduction
The public pronouncements of Cuban leaders, the
daily record of events in Latin America, and reports
from our intelligence sources within Communist and
other left-extremist elements throughout this hemis-
phere all agree on one salient conclusion: that Fidel
Castro is spurring and supporting the efforts of Com-
munists and other revolutionary elements to overthrow
and seize control of the governments in Latin America.

Even before the October missile crisis--and with
increasing rancor since then--Cuban leaders have been
exhorting revolutionary movements to violence and
terrorism, and supporting their activities. Cuban
support takes many different forms, but its main thrust
is in the supply of the inspiration, the guidance, the
training, and the communications and technical assist-
ance that revolutionary groups in Latin America require.

In essence, Castro tells revolutionaries from
other Latin American countries: "Come to Cuba; we
will pay your way, we will train you in underground
organization techniques, in guerrilla warfare, in sab-
otage and in terrorism. We will see to it that you
get back to your homeland. Once you are there, we
will keep in touch with you, give you propaganda sup-
port, send you propaganda materials for your movement,
training aids to expand your guerrilla forces, secret
communications methods, and perhaps funds and special-
ized demolition equipment." Castro is not, as far as
we know, promising these other Latin Americans any Cu-
ban weapons or Cuban personnel--either leaders, ad-
visers, or cadres. But he probably does tell them:
"If you succeed in establishing something effective
by way of a revolutionary movement in your homeland,
if your guerrillas come down out of the hills and con-
front regular armed forces, then we may consider more
concrete forms of assistance."

So far, it should be noted, none of the movements
in South America has reached this final stage--and in
fact even Castro's Sierra Maestra guerrillas never had

SECRET
to fight a pitched battle with regular military for-
mations which might have required more advanced weap-
ons than small arms, grenades, mines, and machineguns.
In many ways, Cuba under Castro is the Latin version
of the old Comintern, inciting, abetting, and sustain-
ing revolution wherever it flourishes.

We have occasional evidence of more concrete Cu-
ban support. Cuban nationals, for example, took part
in the La Oroya disorders in Peru in December. We
know that some funds move, generally in cash by courier,
from Cuba to the revolutionaries in other countries. We
know that Cuba furnishes money to buy weapons, and that
some guerrilla forces in Peru, for instance, are equipped
with Czech weapons which most probably came from Cuba.

Venezuela is apparently number one on Cuba's pri-
ority list for revolution. Fidel Castro said so to the
recent meeting of Communist front organizations for
Latin American women. Che Guevara and Blas Roca both
emphasized the outlook for revolution in Venezuela in
speeches in January. One of our established sources
of proven reliability, high in the ranks of the Vene-
zuelan Communist Party says the Central Committee
agreed in January that a "peaceful solution to the pres-
ent situation in Venezuela is out of the question."

This same source reported that Communist guerrilla
and terrorist operations in Venezuela were placed un-
der a unified command in late 1962, which coordinates
activities with the other militant extremist groups in
Venezuela. The result has been the creation of the
Armed Forces of National Liberation (FALN). This or-
ganization is currently trying to publicize its exist-
ence by such acts as the hijacking of the freighter
ANZOATEGUI, and by acts of sabotage and indiscriminate
shootings. These were also designed to dissuade Pres-
ident Betancourt from his trip to Washington. In this,
of course, they failed.

The violence in Venezuela should not be minimized.
The sabotage is the work of experts, and is being done
with advanced types of explosives. The shooting has
reached the point in Caracas where it is not safe to go
out at night in some sections of the capital. But it
is the opinion both of our people and the embassy that

-2-
SECRET
/
SECRET
this level of activity is not the sort of thing that
will bring down the government unless the president
or other high officials are assassinated. The FALN
has not reached a point where it stands up to the
armed forces, or seizes and holds government build-
ings.

We believe that Cuba has given guerrilla train-
ing to more nationals from Venezuela than from any
other country. Our estimate is that more than 200
Venezuelans received such training in 1962. Many of
these are engaged in terrorism in the cities, and
others were rounded up and given long prison sentences
when they committed themselves prematurely last spring
in a countryside where the rural population strongly
supports the Betancourt administration. One of our
best penetrations of the Communist Party in Venezuela
tells us that at present the unified command has less
than 150 guerrillas in the field, in widely separated
groups of 15 to 25 men each.

II. The Cuban Plan

For the past year Cuban spokesmen have been push-
ing the line that Cuba provides the example for Latin
American revolution, with the implication that nothing
more than guidance needs to be exported. Castro ac-
tually sounded the keynotes for Cuban subversion on
July 26, 1960, when he said, "We promise to continue
making Cuba the example that can convert the Cordillera
of the Andes into the Sierra Maestra of the American
continent." In his speech on 15 January 1963 Castro
said that if "Socialism" in Cuba had waited to over-
turn Batista by peaceful means, Castro would still be
in the Sierra Maestra. For the past three months,
Che Guevara and Education Minister Armando Hart, both
in public speeches and in remarks to visiting Com-
munists which have been repeated to us, have been in-
sisting that what they call "Socialism" can achieve
power in Latin America only by force.

The Cuban effort at present is far more serious
than the hastily organized and ill-conceived raids that
the bearded veterans of the Sierra Maestra led into
such Central American countries as Panama, Haiti, Nic-
aragua and the Dominican Republic during the first

-3-
SECRET
/
SECRET
eight or nine months Castro was in power. Today
the Cuban effort is far more sophisticated, more
covert, and more deadly. In its professional trade-
craft, it shows guidance and training by experienced
Communist advisers from the Soviet bloc, including
veteran Spanish Communists.

The ideas move fairly openly in a massive propa-
ganda effort. The inflammatory broadcasts from Ha-
vana and the work of Prensa Latina are matters of
public record. It may be worth noting that the postal
and customs authorities in Panama are destroying on
the average of 12 tons a month of Cuban propaganda
coming into their land. Another 10 tons a month comes
into Costa Rica; most of it is spotted either at the
airport or in the post office and destroyed.

The know-how is not only imparted to the guerrilla
trainees who come to Cuba, but is exported in the form
of booklets. There are thousands of copies of the
texts on guerrilla warfare by Mao Tse-tung and by Che
Guevara scattered over all of Latin America. Our agents
have brought us, for example, a little pocket booklet,
about two and a half by four inches, called "150 ques-
tions on guerrilla warfare," written by a Spanish Civil
War veteran, Alberto Bayo. This was printed in Cuba,
and turned up first in Peru. Another version, with
100 questions and answers, based on Guevara's and Bayo's
books, has been written especially for Peruvian use and
mimeographed in Peru. This is about 5 x 8, and in-
cludes drawings on how to place demolition charges as
well as charts for calculating the force of various
explosives. There is a Portuguese text of Guevara's
book in Brazil, and a mimeographed abridgement of
Bayo's 150 questions has been prepared by a terrorist-
guerrilla organization in Colombia.

All of these textbooks stress that the guerrilla
must be self-sustaining. They not only tell him how
to make Molotov cocktails, explosives, and incendiary
preparations from materials that he can obtain easily
and sometimes even openly at home. They stress that
his weapons, his equipment, and supplies should come
from "the enemy"--that is, from the security forces
in his homeland.

NW 50955 DocId: 32424709 Page 10
-4-
SECRET
SECRET
III. Training

We estimate that at least 1,000, and perhaps
as many as 1,500 persons came to Cuba during 1962,
from all the other Latin American countries with
the possible exception of Uruguay, to receive ideo-
logical indoctrination or guerrilla warfare train-
ing or both. More have gone in 1963 despite the
limited facilities for reaching Cuba at present.

The largest contingents have come from Vene-
zuela, Peru, Ecuador, Argentina, and Bolivia. Some
of the courses are as short as four weeks, designed
to let it appear that the trainees had merely at-
tended some conference or celebration and done a
little sightseeing. Other courses last as long as
a year, and may include intensive training in such
things as sabotage, espionage, and psychological
warfare.

We have devoted a great deal of effort to
monitoring Latin American travel to Cuba at the
main jump-off points such as Mexico and Curacao.
(Curacao has not been used since October, but KLM
may soon resume flights.) The Cubans go to great
lengths to conceal the fact that some of these
trainees have ever been to Cuba, and how long they
stayed. However, we know a great deal about this
travel from our penetrations of the Communist par-
ties, from controlled agents we have been able to
maneuver into the training courses in Cuba, and
from cooperative travel control authorities in
Latin American countries. The Cuban Embassy in
Mexico City gives the trainee a visa on a separate
piece of paper, so that his passport, when he goes
home, will only show that he has been in Mexico.
We have a record, however, of those who fly on to
Cuba. In other cases, particularly in the case of
travel through Montevideo before the quarantine,
the Cubans furnished passports under other names
for travel by way of Curacao.

We derive some of our figures from travel con-
trol points, and another set from the information
we receive from penetration agents of established
reliability in the Communist parties. Some of the
-5-
SECRET
ر
SECRET
Latin American governments are also able to maintain
fairly accurate lists of their nationals known to
have been in Cuba. We get a certain amount of cross-
checking from lists of names furnished us by several
of our agents who have undergone training, and in
confessions of captured guerrillas who had been in
Cuba. Thus in the case of Peru, for instance, we
come up with a list of 235 names of individuals known
to have made extended stays in Cuba in 1961 and 1962.
We have to make allowance for some who did not re-
ceive guerrilla training, and allowance in the op-
posite direction for those whose names have escaped
our surveillance. But we are guided in these adjust-
ments by the cross-checking information mentioned
above.

Some of the trainees arrive, and many go home,
by way of the Iron Curtain and Western Europe, using
Soviet, Czech, or Cuban aircraft--and probably ships
as well--for the trip between Cuba and the Bloc. This
is another attempt to conceal their movements, and in
some cases permits further indoctrination and train-
ing in Bloc countries.

Under the circumstances we consider that our
estimate of 1,000 to 1,500 guerrilla warfare trainees
in 1962 is reasonably accurate. We also believe that
the scope and volume of this training is being stepped
up, just as we know that it incresed in 1962 over 1961.
An
The basic training covers cross-country movement:
of guerrillas, firing, care of weapons, and general
guerrilla tactics. One of our Brazilian agents took
such a four-week course more than a year ago, under
cover of going to Cuba for a convention. He returned
to his Havana hotel every few days during the course
to spread the word that he had been sightseeing.
Argentine trainee who took a longer course and then
was sent home by way of Europe has given us a great
deal of detail on the type of training. He reports
that some of the trainees remain indefinitely. The
Cubans sometimes refer to these men as their Interna-
tional Brigade. Sometimes they are formed into na-
tional units from a particular country, in effect
forming a packaged cadre which can be returned to
the homeland to lead a "Liberation Army."

-6-
SECRET
SECRET
A trainee who recently returned to Peru after
several months of training in Cuba, said that all
his fellow trainees were asked to mark bridges and
other similar demolition targets on detailed maps
of Peru. They were also required to fill out
lengthy questionnaires on sabotage targets, possibil-
ities for subversion of police, methods for illegal
entry and travel, suitable drop zones for air sup-
ply, possible points of attack against police and
military posts, and similar information necessary
for directing subversion and insurrection.

Numerous reports come to us indicating that in
such countries as Colombia, Venezuela, and Peru,
where there are indigenous guerrilla forces either
in action or in being in the hills, there are Cu-
bans among the bands acting as leaders, instructors
or advisors for these forces. These reports are in-
variably second-hand, and we have not been able to
confirm any of them. In some cases, it has turned
out that a reference to "a Cuban" with the guerrillas
referred to someone who has been trained in Cuba and
was training others, rather than a Cuban national.
However, we know positively that three Cuban nationals
were involved in the strike violence at La Oroya,
Peru, last December, which culminated in several
million dollars worth of damage to the smelter of
the American-owned Cerro de Pasco mining company.
One of these Cubans has also been directing the armed
invasions of big ranches in the Andean highlands by
land-hungry Indians. Information of this nature con-
tributed to the decision of the Peruvian junta to
crack down on Communists in January. In Brazil, the
complaint of guerrillas in training camps was that
they had been recruited by a promise of Cuban in-
structors, but found there were none. This came to
light when the report of a Cuban intelligence agent,
relaying their complaints to Havana, turned up in
the wreckage of the Varig airliner which crashed in
Peru in November.

IV. Weapons

In general, the Cubans appear to be following
the textbook for guerrillas in regard to provision
of arms. We have strong evidence, from numerous
-7-
SECRET
SECRET
sources, that they are telling the guerrilla warfare
students and their leaders to obtain their own weap-
ons at home.

One of our agents who was in the original group
of Brazilian trainees said he was trained exclusively
in the use and maintenance of the Garand M-1 rifle
and M-3, Browning and Hotchkiss machineguns. His
group was told that these were the weapons Brazilian
guerrillas would be able to buy, steal, or capture
from the security forces at home. Similarly, an Ar-
gentine trainee, an agent, said their instructors
told them Cuba would not be sending weapons because
there was a plentiful source of supply for any de-
termined guerrilla movement in its own homeland.
Leaders of militant groups in Venezuela, Brazil, and
Peru who have gone to Cuba seeking assistance have
been told by the Cuban leaders that Cuba is willing
to furnish funds, training, and technical assistance.
Reference to weapons is pointedly omitted. This is
reported to us by our agents in these same groups.

We have recently again checked with all of our
stations in Latin America to review what evidence we
have of military shipments from Cuba. In Peru, radio
transmitters were admittedly brought in from Cuba.
(In Venezuela so much radio equipment was stolen
last fall that this was unnecessary)) In 1962, Cuba
furnished cash to buy weapons in Mexico to be smug-
gled into Guatemala. In Peru, the guerrilla trainees
who were rounded up in the Huampani-Satipo incident
last March had been issued kits containing a Czech
rifle with a pistol grip, apparently of bloc origin.
Otherwise, however, in case after case guerrilla
hardware turned out to have been bought or stolen
locally, or smuggled in from the adjoining country.
We do not have a single case where we are certain
of the Cuban origin of captured arms.

This is not to say that we are positive weapons
have not been sent from Cuba. Latin America has a
long tradition of smuggling, a long coastline, in-
numerable isolated landing fields and drop zones,
and inadequate security forces to control all such
channels. A Venezuelan Communist leader has been
telling guerrilla leaders that Cuba will soon send

8-
SECRET
SECRET
them mortars. It is always possible, of course, that
he is fabricating to build up the morale of his units,
but we must also conclude that if he is indeed making
this up, he risks inevitable disillusionment.

In summary, we have evidence that in principle
Cuba is not sending identifiable quantities of weapons
to Latin American insurgents at present. But we have
no reason to believe that they will not or cannot do
so, when so doing serves their stated purpose of creat-
ing uprisings in Latin American Countries. Needless
to say, this is a matter that we consider of most ser-
ious concern and we intensively trace every rumor that
comes to us of the importation of arms from Cuba to
Latin American countries.

V. Funding

Cuban financing of subversive operations in Latin
America is easy to ascertain and hard to document. Our
evidence shows that it is generally effected by couriers
carrying cash. The following are a few examples of
these operations.

A Venezuelan politician, Fabricio Ojeda, returned
from Cuba in March of 1962, and was seen by several
witnesses to have large quantities of US currency
stuffed in a false-bottomed compartment of his suit-
case. There is no law against bringing currency into
Venezuela, so that authorities could not even deter-
mine how much he had brought in. Ojeda later was cap-
tured, tried, and sentenced for guerrilla activity.

A Nicaraguan exile, Julio Cesar Mayorga Porto-
carrera, was flying from Mexico to Honduras in Sep-
tember, 1961, when weather forced the plane to over-
fly Honduras and land in Nicaragua. He was found to
be carrying $3,600 in cash, which he admitted he was
bringing from Cuba for Nicaraguan rebels in Honduras.

Last March Ecuadorean troops raided a guerrilla
training camp in the mountains west of Quito and ar-
rested some 48 members of the Union of Revolutionary
Ecuadorean Youth. The leaders of the group admitted
NW 50955 DocId: 32424709 Page 15
-9-
SECRET
SECRET
having received guerrilla training in Cuba, together
with funds to support their activities. One item
of $44,000 was publicized in the press.

A highly placed Guatemalan Communist who defected
last November has given us a specific account of pro-
cedures by which Cuba sent cash to Mexico to buy weap-
ons which were then smuggled into Guatemala. We also
have considerable evidence of involved bank transfers
by which Cuban money eventually reached Latin American
front groups to pay for political and propaganda ac-
tivity. In some countries where the Cubans still have
diplomatic missions, we have obtained photostats show-
ing that Cuban diplomats paid for printing of front-
group propaganda.

In January 1963 one of the first Brazilians to
receive guerrilla warfare training in 1961 was picked
up with a suitcase full of ammunition he was carrying
to some of those same guerrilla training camps ex-
posed when the Varig plane crashed in Peru. The man
admitted that a woman attorney in Rio had given him
the money to buy a large hacienda as a new guerrilla
camp. We know that this woman is a cut-out in the
communications between the pro-Communist Peasant Leagues,
which have run the camps, and the Cuban embassy.

The principle that guerrillas must be self-sus-
taining has obviously been applied to finances as well.
Communist guerrillas have staged numerous bank rob-
beries in Peru, Venezuela, and Argentina. The most
spectacular hold-up was that of a bank in a Lima sub-
urb last year which netted almost $100,000. From
the participants, who have been caught, we know that
the hold-up was carried out by a combination of guer-
rillas and ordinary criminals, who divided the loot
fifty-fifty. Some of the share of the common criminals
has been recovered, but the Communist half is believed
to have reached the sizeable guerrilla forces of Hugo
Blanco in the Cuzco Valley. In February 1963 a bank
in an outlying Venezuelan town was robbed of $25,000
by men wearing FALN armbands.

VI. Cuban Propaganda Broadcasts

International broadcasts by Cuban radio stations
maintain a relatively constant propaganda level at all
-10-
SECRET
SECRET
times, with regularly scheduled and special broad-
casts to specific countries as well as general trans-
missions to all Latin America. The general theme
of these broadcasts is that the "Cuban example" is
awakening the "people" of Latin America to the op-
portunity for revolutionary action against the "cor-
rupt" regimes in power and against "Yankee imperialism"
which allegedly supports them. Within the last two
months there has been an increase in the aggressive-
ness with which the broadcasts incite revolt.

The official Cuban international service called
*Radio Havana Cuba is the chief radio propaganda out-
let. More commonly known as Radio Havana, this sta-
tion broadcasts weekly a total of 187 hours and 50
minutes of propaganda in languages which include
Spanish, English, French, Arabic, Portuguese, and
Haitian Creole, to listeners in Europe, the Mediter-
ranean area, and the Western Hemisphere.

Radio Havana's international service was in-
augurated on May Day in 1961. It has grown rapidly
since that time and is now Latin America's first in-
ternational broadcaster in terms of program hours.
Its time on the air is as follows, in hours per week:

Haitian Creole to Haiti 7 hr

Arabic to the Mediterranean area 5 hr 15 min

English to Europe 9 hr 20 min

English to the Western Hemis- 17 hr 30 min
phere
French to Europe 9 hr 20 min

French to Canada 3 hr 20 min

French to Mediterranean 3 hr 30 min

Portuguese to Brazil 7 hr

Spanish to Europe 16 hr 55 min

Spanish to the Americas. 108 hr 30 min
-11-
SECRET
SECRET
In addition to the regularly scheduled inter-
national service, Radio Havana has been known to
broadcast special programs in order to take advan-
tage of unique political situations. When serious
disorders broke out in the Dominican Republic in
late 1961, for example, broadcasts emanating from a
self-styled "clandestine" station which said it was
located inside the Dominican Republic demanded the
overthrow of the Dominican government. The station
went off after about a week, but not before direc-
tion finder bearings and other technical clues in-
dicated that it had been transmitting from Radio
Havana's transmitting facilities in Cuba.

Radio Havana states that it makes its facilities
available to political groups from other Latin Ameri-
can countries so they can beam programs to their home-
lands. These programs, which have the evident intent
of encouraging subversion and inciting revolt, are
presently beamed on regular weekly or twice a week
schedule to Guatemala, Peru, and the Dominican Re-
public. Similar programs were beamed to Nicaragua
and Honduras until last September when they were
replaced by a single program with wider targets now
programmed nightly. These special programs are ex-
emplified by the programs transmitted to the Domini-
can Republic on 28 January. One was a "manifesto"
by Dominican Communists (who are based in Cuba) on
the recent election of the "demagogic imperialist
agent" Juan Bosch as President of the Dominican Re-
public. Another was allegedly by a pro-Communist
group of Dominicans in Cuba called the "National
Liberation Movement." It appealed to Dominican
university students to demonstrate against the Con-
stituent Assembly meeting in Santo Domingo.
:
There are also two special programs beamed to
the United States. "Radio Free Dixie" is a one
hour a week transmission in English aimed at US
Negroes. The other program, "The Friendly Voice
of Cuba," is somewhat more subtle and aimed at a
wider audience. Both programs can be heard well in
Florida and also in many parts of southern United
States.

The technical facilities of Radio Havana are
at a transmitter site at Bauta, some 23 miles
-12-
SECRET
SECRET
southwest of Havana. At present, no more than four
shortwave transmitters are being used, but in the
past as many as five have been observed on the air
at the same time. These transmitters range in power
from 10 to 100 kilowatts, enabling Radio Havana to
be heard all over the world. Programs are being
sent from studios to the transmitter site by means
of microwave relays.

VII. Rival Forces in Latin American Subversion

Since the October crisis, Fidel Castro has ob-
viously been trying to straddle the rift between Mos-
cow and Peiping over global Communist strategy. It
has been aptly put that Castro's heart is in Peiping
but his stomach is in Moscow. This same split be-
tween all-out militancy and a more cautious policy--
call it coexistence or "two steps forward, one step
back"--is reflected on the extreme left in many Latin
American countries. Thus Cuba at present not only
seeks to serve two masters, but to choose among rival
servants in its Latin American subversion.

Castro's views on what is good for socialism
and revolution in Latin America are more in line with
those of the Chinese Communists than the Soviets.
Only the Cuban and Venezuelan Communist parties are
totally committed to terror and revolution. In spite
of differences over tactics and timing between var-
ious Communist groups, all intend eventually to de-
liver the Latin American countries into the Commu-
nists-socialist bloc. The so-called Soviet "conser-
vative" view, as it is now espoused, is more intent
on trying to achieve power by legal means if possible
and by subversion rather than by force.

Direct Soviet interest in Latin America is clearly
increasing. An excellent example of this was the set-
ting up early in 1962 of a Latin American Institute in
the Academy of Sciences of the USSR. The avowed purpose
of this institute is to raise the study of the prob-
lems of Latin America, which in their own statements
the Soviets claim they have neglected, to the highest
possible level. Teaching of Spanish and Portuguese
-13-
SECRET
==End of OCR for page 129==