198-10005-10018
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form Date: 6/24/201

Agency Information
AGENCY: ARMY
RECORD NUMBER: 198-10005-10018
RECORD SERIES: CALIFANO PAPERS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: MULTIPLE
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 00/00/0000
PAGES: 123
SUBJECTS: ARMS SMUGGLING, CUBA
LATIN AMERICA SECURITY
CUBAN SPONSORED SUBVERSION
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/07/1997
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: Califano Papers, Box 6, Folder 30. Assorted documents related to Cuban material support of
Communist subversives in Latin America.

v9.1
NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 12
Page 1

AND FROM CUBA
ARMS SHIPMENTS
TO

NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 2
SECRET
ARMS SUTPИT
General:
Arms smuggling is one of the "facts of life" in Latin
America and has been engaged in by dissident elements for many years..
Reports of Castro involvement in these activities have been frequent since
Aly after his seizure of power early in 1959. None of these reports
er been proven. With the arrival of large quantities of Soviet Bloc
arms in 1959, Cuba recovered all U.S. arms in the hands of the populace
arms in the hends of the populace
and made it a crime punishable by death to have possession of weapons of
U.S. manufacture. The U.S. aras furnished under the MAP to forser Cuban
governments with large stocks which could be shipped to subversive groups
Identification of these arms with Cuba would be
extremoly difficult.
TAB
1
Revorte of Method of Operation
This Tob contains five items: (1) Two reports alle@ging arms
amiggling by fishermen and by means of food products shipped to
Latin Azerica; (2) A report which indicates that a Cuben erma
enche discovered in Brasil to not of Cuban origin; and (3) Tvo
reports concerning a Cuban arsenal purportedly being used to
supply arms for an invasion of some Caribbean country or an
invasion of South America.
2
Reports of Arms Smuggling
This Tab contains a number of items reporting arms smuggling to
Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, Venezuela, British Cuiona and
Prasil. Note particularly the top item in which the British
indicate the numerous reports on ams smuggling to British
SECRET
NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 3
SECRET
Qulana are without foundation and the second iten which
refutes the report contained in the Life Magazine article
of 8 February.

NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 4
SECRET
O
NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 5
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs.
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is, prohibited by law.
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
CLATAAC-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
EXPORTIN
COUNTRY CUBA/LATIN AMERICA REPORT NO. TDCS DB23/653,152
SUBJECT POSSIBLE CONCEALMENT OF WEAPONS DATE DISTR. 6 FEBRUARY 1963
FOR SHIPMENT TO LATIN AMERICA

DATE OF LATE 1962 PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
INFO.
REFERENCES IN 62553
PLACE & UNITED STATES (4 FEBRUARY 1963) 35871
DATE ACO.
APPRAISAL 6 FIELD REPORT NO.
-3
8

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
SOURCE U.S. OWNER (C) OF A MARINA, FROM A FORMER CUBAN AIR FORCE OFFICER,
FROM THE BROTHER OF AN EMPLOYEE OF A CANNERY IN SAN CRISTOBAL.

1. IN LATE 1962 A DAY-SHIFT EMPLOYEE AT A CANNERY IN SAN
CRISTOBAL, PINAR DEL RIO PROVINCE, FOUND A HAND GRENADE WRAPPED
IN NYLON AND BEDDED IN SHREDDED COCONUT IN A CAN WHICH HAD FELT
UNUSUALLY HEAVY. (FIELD COMMENT: IT IS NOT CLEAR WHETHER THE
CAN HAD GONE THROUGH THE CANNING PROCESS AND HAD BEEN SEALED.)
AS A RESULT OF HIS DISCOVERY THE WORKER WAS ALMOST FIRED. ONE
OF THE MILITIA GUARDS AT THE CANNERY SAID THAT AMMUNITION AND
OTHER EQUIPMENT IS REGULARLY CANNED AND SHIPPED TO LATIN
AMERICAN COUNTRIES. A SPECIAL NIGHT SHIFT WORKS AT THE PLANT.
2. (FIELD COMMENT: AN UNTESTED SOURCE REPORTED IN EARLY
OCTOBER 1962 THAT IN JULY 1962 A STORY WAS CIRCULATING IN SAN
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS GROUP I
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L Excluded fram automatic
downgrading and
CONTROLLED DISSEM declassification
STATE/INRD ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC YATI USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR 081 00 FBI
STATE/DIR REPCINCLANT INS EXO
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
FORM (15-20)
5-62 1Kb OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 6
C
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS IN 62553
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L TDCS DB-3/653,152 35871
PAGE 2
CONTROLLED DISSEM

ANDRES, AN ISLAND POSSESSION OF COLOMBIA, THAT A PISTOL HAD
BEEN FOUND EARLIER CONCEALED INSIDE A FROZEN CHICKEN WHICH
HAD BEEN PART OF A SHIPMENT RECEIVED FROM CUBA.)
3. FIELD DISSEM: CINCARIB, CINCLANT.

NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 7
END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
CONTROLLED DISSEM
SECRET
NO FOR CISSEM
An arms cache of weapons and ammunition recently discovered at the
Idgas Camponesas guerrilla training center in the interior of the
Brasilien state of Goias is believed by US Embassy and CAS officers to
be of Brazilien rather than Cuban arms, despite a Brazilien newspaper
suggestion that they were Cuben. There were also discovered about 125
copies of Communist publications including Che Guevara's well-known
treatise on "Querrilla Warfare". The training center was described as
organized according to that book. A confidential report on the discoveries
added that "members of the center went to be the Brazilian equivalent
of those who fought in the Bierre Maestra and so bring the hard Chinese-
Cuban type revolution to Brazil." Some 90 to 95 persons in the locality
are reported members of or sympathetic to the Ligas Camponesas activities,
but only 2 of the 24 for whom warrents were issued have yet been taken
into custody. (Am Emb, Rio de Janeiro 1122, 10 December, CONFIDENTIAL,
and CIA, Brasilia, IN 33026, 11 December, SECRET NOFORN)

NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 8
SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
INFORMATION!
ORT
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY Export Rev.
The material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Lava Tie
18, U.8.0. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM Wit Proce
COUNTRY Cuba/USSR/Latin America REPORT NO. CS-3/530,898
SUBJECT 1. Use of Soviet Fishing Boats DATE DISTR. 11 December 1962
to Transport Arms to Latin
America
NO. PAGES 1
2. Belgian Arms Dealer in Habana
REFERENCES RD-W-2107
Paras. 1 & 2: October 1962; RD-ACQ-01258
DATE OF Para. 3: August 1962
INFO... Paras. 1, 2: France, Paris;
PLACE & Para. 3: Spain, Madrid 38957
DATE ACQ. Paras. 1, 2: 23 November 1962; FIELD REPORT NO.
Para. 3: 12 October 1962
BOURCE:
1. Paras. 1 & 2: An official French service; Para. 3: CC-1197,
2.
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
Cuban refugee (F), a former employee of the Cuban diplomatic
service, who visited Santiago de Cuba in August 1962,
Appraisal of Content: 3.

1. Soviet fishing boats, under cover of fishing Atlantic waters,
are transporting contraband arms to Latin American countries.
The boats are met outside the territorial waters of those
countries, and arms are transferred in small quantities.
On board the Soviet boats are only Soviets and a very few
Cubans or other Latin Americans who talk with those who
pick up the arms. The arms being delivered are of American
manufacture, including those obtained during the Batista
regime and those taken during the Playa Giron invasion. The
Soviet fishing boats also carry propaganda and pamphlets
containing, military instructions, the same type of material
being sent by diplomatic pouch from Mexico.
2. A Belgian in Habana who says he represents a Belgian firm,
has offered the Cuban Government any type and nationality
of arms for payment in dollars. The Belgian has made a
similar offer of sale of arms to a representative of an
anti-Castro group in Habana.

3. In August 1962 a fisherman in Santiago de Cuba said that
on several occasions he had been forced by the Government
to use his boat for transporting small groups of men, in
civilian clothes, and supplies of arms. He also knew of
other fishermen who had been forced to do the same. The men
and arms were carried to small islands or transferred to other
boats at sea. Such trips sometimes lasted as long as four or
five days. The fisherman did not know the purpose or final
destination of the men and arms.

STATE X ARMY X NAVY S-E-C-R-E-T GROUP I
NO FOREIGN DISSEM Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification
X AIR XINSA X OCR X DIA X FBI 2
COAST GUARD X XANA X
REPCINCLANT CINCARIB #
(Notes Washington distribution indicated by "X", Field distribution by "#")
NFORMATION DIVORT
ARAMA DNWORT
NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 9
COUNTRY: CUBA
SECRET
SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM
CIA INFORMATION REPORT
Eyplant & Rev
CS-3/532,138
26 December 1962
SUBJECT: IDENTIFICATION OF CUBAN VESSELS ALLEGEDLY PREPARED TO INVADE A
CARIBBEAN COUNTRY
DATE OF INFO: 28 NOVEMBER 1962
SOURCE: TRAVELING SALESMAN (F)
APPRAISAL OF CONTENT: 3
HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: ACCORDING TO TDCS-3/530,589, DATED 6 DECEMBER 1962, AS
OF MID-NOVEMBER TWO CUBAN SHIPS LOADED WITH PERSONNEL AND EQUIPMENT WERE SAMY
SAID TO BE PREPARED FOR AN INVASION OF HAITI. SOURCE SAID HE WOULD PROVIDE THE
NAMES OF THE SHIPS AND THEIR DEPARTURE DATE.
THE FRUCUBA AND THE FUNDADOR, CUBAN-FLAG VESSELS, WERE DOCKED AT THE ARSENAL
DOCKS IN CASABLANCA (HABANA) IN LATE NOVEMBER. THESE KEKS VESSELS WERE SCHEDULED
:
TO PARTICIPATE IN AN INVASION OF SOME CARIBBEAN COUNTRY.
SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM
NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 10
SECRET
CUBA
ARMS SHIPMENTS
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL Eyport
Stockpile of War Hateriel for Latin 19 Jamary 1962
America (C)
1 of 1
Barly Janmory 1962 Nane
Habana, c/a 7 January 62 DIJ
LUJ 316/36-6-62 DUJ
BUJ-43-62
1. Source reports an arsenal or stockpiling of war materiel at Casablanca, a
Wabma District, northeast shore of Hebana Bay, Mebana Province.
2. Source has heard this materiel is targeted for an invasion of South America.
CONFID'EN TIAL
OPNS
BRANCH
CONFIDENTIAL
DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEARS
NTAVUS NOT AUTO
MATICALLY DECLASSIFIED
DOD DIR 5200.10

NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 11
Venezuela Uncovers Communist Arms Cacne-
The Venezuelan Government in a raid on a small
village near Caracas on 5 January -- uncovered a
large cache of arms and equipment which it claims
belonged to the pro-Castro Armed Forces of National
Liberation, reputed to be emerging as a para-
military arm of the Venezuelan Communist Party.
Several tons of explosives and large quantities
of hand bombs, arms, and ammunition were seized as well
as a nearby clandestine Communist radio
transmitter. (SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM)
SOURCE: TDCS 533,071 (S/NFD); FBIS (OUO); PRESS

10 Jan 63
DIA Intelligence Bulletin
(REVERSE BLANK)
SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM
NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 12
Page 9
2
NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 13
ARMS SHIPMENTS
12 Feb 63 "All the information available to Her Majesty's Government
and to the British authorities in British Guiana indicates that there is
no truth whatever in the continuing reports that arms are being shipped
to the colony from Cuba. Similar stories have appeared from time to time
in the past, but upon examination all have been found to be without
foundation."
(British Embassy in US to Reuters, AP and UPI),

NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 14
N
12 February 1961
Sighter:
shipe put out from Mariel (Cuba) only last week with holds
loaded with weapons sent by Castro to British Guiana."
A debrief report of a Cuban national who arrived at Port Everglades
on 25 January (90) Comitted time following statement:
I was told by an assistant only trapactor for the fort of Havana
that on 14 January 1963 two launches caprained by a man with what
appeared to be an Italien accent had departed from the Le Coubre
wharf (Marana).
Anifest on ship indicated the dentination was
However, the ship inspector had been told by the
Launches were loaded with ar

TD/00-K-3249316 DTG 2818052
3. The following information may refer to this arme shipment. Aen
tested CLA course, a member of the Communist Party of Colombia in
Call, has stated hat daring a conversation on 5 January 196) betwe
Amado de Jeans Zapata, member of the Department of Valia Regional
Committee of the Communist Party of Colombia (PCC), and P.1, Plata,
& Cuban deep-cover agent working with the seventh of January Worker-
Student - Peasant Movement (MOEC), in Colombia and Vonszuela, Plata
said that the MOLC ta not a ceal movement but rather a part of Latin
American concept which is twing assisted by Castro and the Cuban Govern
meat, to saidho has been in Call for one year on a ajocial assignment
from the top leadara in Cuba to nes that artos, propaganda, and instruc
tions from Vanesuela, originating in Cuba, get into the hands of the MOEC
groups
at for MOCC in due to arrive from
(Greats, capital of the Departe
In on the Venesuelan bordar and
en two countries.j
Ref RD-0-2107
CLA Report
0

SECRE
5. Another report may a100 zlos to thio asmo shipment, According
to information dated | February 1969 from a CIA searce and appraicod
by the CLA preparing dlico as possiblo true, Pedro MATOS, who
together with the throomsumber ragional command committee of tho
Partido Comunieta de Vonarsela (PCV) in the stato of Zulia is
responsible for PCV arme mattero in thai state, said recently that
the party is awaiting a chipment of arms from Cuba and Praemi bat
that the cast date of arrival is still minowa.
CIA Report TDCS-3/936,941, ad 9 Feb 63 Aof IN 64876

6. Replies to DIA SICR's ca thie cubject from NSA and CNO do not
Indicate any vessels departing Havana on or after 14 Jasmary beand
for British Cuians, nor do Kate Department queries to Georgetowi,
British Guiana indicate the arrival of any arme.. No reperts havo
been received from service attaches in Venesuela er frem curces in
Panama concorning this particular mater.

Project Officer!
CDR Barton

SECRE

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
CORIOLINTIME
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, The 18, U.S.C Socs.
3 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized
CONFIDENTIAL
(When Filled Ing
COUNTRY NICARAGUA
authorized person is prohibited by low.
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NICARAGUA HONDURAS/COSTA RICA / CUBA
SUBJECT PLANS TO LAND ARMS FROM. CUBA IN HONDURAS
DATE OF 9 JANUARY 1963
INFO.
REPORT NO. TDCS, -3/534,035
DATE DISTR. 16 JANUARY 1963 A
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
REFERENCES IN50511
FIELD REPORT NO. NM-729
PLACE & NICARAGUA, MANAGUA (15 JANUARY 1963)
DATE ACO.
APPRAISAL 3

SOURCE THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
A NICARAGUAN JOURNALIST (C) FROM A NICARAGUAN OFFIC ANISAN JOSE FROM
CESAR AUGOSTO VILLAREAL CABEZAS
ACTION COPY
OPERATIONS AREA

1. ON 9 JANUARY 1963 CESAR AUGUSTO VILLAREAL CABEZAS, A NICARAGUAN
REVOLUT I ONARY LIVING IN SAN JOSE, SAID THAT HE WAS AWAITING INSTRUC
TIONS TO GO TO PUERTO CORTES, HONDURAS TO RECEIVE A SHIPMENT OF ARMS
WHICH WILL COME FROM CUBA ON THE "CORK_C", A MERCHANT VESSEL OF UNKNOWN
REGISTRY. HE SAID THAT THE INSTRUCTIONS TO GO TO PUERTO CORTES WILL
COME FROM CUBA THROUGH DR. EMILIO ORTEGA TAΡΙΑ.

2. THE "CORK_C" WILL UNLOAD THE ARMS AT CAYO COCHINO WHERE THEY
WILL BE RECEIVED BY GRIFFIN (FNU), WHO LIVES IN PUERTO CORTES.
GRIFFIN WILL DELIVER, THE ARMS TO VILLAREAL AT PUERTO CORTES.
3. THE ARMS WILL BE TAKEN FROM PUERTO CORTES TO PUEBLO NUEVO,
CONFIDENTIAL
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
こ
GROUP I
Excluded from automathe
downgrading and
declassification
STATE/INR DIA AF/MY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR 081 00
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
DA IN 8112

FORM
1Kg OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
CONFIDENTIAL
0000
NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 17
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL
(When Filled In)
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
TDCS-3/534,035
IN 50511
PAGE
2
NICARAGUA BY VILLAREAL, JULIO VELASQUEZ VELEZ, AND 'DR. HERNAN SILVA
ARGUELLO WHERE, THEY WILL BE TURNED OVER TO DR. EMILIO FLORES OBREGON,

4. (SOURCE COMMENT: THE DATE OF ARRIVAL OF THE "CORK C" IS UN_
KNOWN. CARLOS FONSECA AMADOR, NICARAGUAN COMMUNIST GUERRILLA LEADER
IN HONDURAS, HAS RECEIVED ARMS FROM CUBA BY THE SAME SYSTEM.)
FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY CINCARIB CINCLANT.
ACTION ACSI, NAVY, AF, JCS, OSD
INFO DCSOP
DA IN 8112

CONFIDENTIAL
END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CONFIDENTIAL
NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 18
0000
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains information criecting the Natione Datense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title is us. Secs.
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which-in any hanner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
MI SECRET
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
(When Filled In) 1963 FEB 9 11 41

NTRY VENEZUELA REPORT NO. TDCS-3/536,942
DIAAP-3
JECT PCO BLE SHIPMENT OF ARMS FROM CUBA AND DATE DISTR. 9 FEBRUARY 1963
PANAMA TO WESTERN VENEZUELA
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

OF
1 FEBRUARY 1963 REFERENCES IN 64876
10
VENT JELA, MARACAIBO (1 FEBRUARY 1963)
CE &
DATE ACO.
PPRAISAL 2 FIELD REPORT NO. HVC-2651
DURCE THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
A MEMBER (C) OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF VENEZUELA IN MARACAIBO.
D

1. PEDRO MATOS, WHO TOGETHER WITH THREE MEMBER REGIONAL COMMAND
COMMITTEE OF THE PARTIDO COMUNISTA DE VENEZUELA (PCV, COMMUNIST PARTY
OF VENEZUELA) IN THE STATE OF ZULIA IS RESPONSIBLE FOR PCV ARMS MATTERS
IN THAT STATE, SAID RECENTLY THAT THE PARTY IS AWAITING A SHIPMENT OF
ARMS FROM CUBA AND PANAMA BUT THAT THE EXACT DATE OF ARRIVAL IS STILL
UNKNOWN SOURCE COMMENT: ALTHOUGH THE LOCATIONS OF ARMS ARE KNOWN
ONLY ΤΟ ΜΑTOS AND THE REGIONAL COMMAND COMMITTEE, IT IS POSSIBLE THAT THE
REA AROUND LA CONCEPCION AND LA PAZ, TOWNS APPROXIMATELY SOUTHWEST
DND WEST, RESPECTIVELY, OF MARACAIBO CITY IN THE DISTRICT OF MARACA I BO,
SITES). (FIELD COMMENT: ACCORDING TO SOURCE, THE REGIONAL
ARE
SECRET GROUP
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS Excluded fram automatic
downgrading and
declassification
STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR 081 00
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM
AAP-3
FORM
OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 19
(15-20)
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET IN 64876
:
An Filled In) TDCS-3/536,942
PAGE 2

OMMITTEE OF THE PCV IN THE STATE OF ZULIA HAD BEEN DISSOLVED AS OF EARLY
K
3'63 AND A THREE MEMBER REGIONAL COMMAND COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED).
2. FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR CINCLANT CINCARIB.
N
20
C
SECRET CLASSIFICATION
END OF MESSAGE
DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
AAP-3
CONFIDENTIAL
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
STAFF MESSAGE DIVISION..
INCOMING MESSAGE
RETRANSMITTED TO: SAC, TAC,
CONAD, AFSC, MATS
AF IN: 50955 (24 Feb 62) K/eld... (per req Mr Kerp-CIN-
25Feb62)
ACTION: CIN-17 (18)
:
A/D: ARMY-2, NAVY-2, CMC-7, JCS-45, OSD-15
RC 41/24 FEB 62 OSD/SDLU-1, STATE-15, CIA-11, NSA-7
RO/RO/RO XPD-3, ISI-2, IDS-2 (112) (Risd by
PRIORITY. Mr Kerp-CIN-25Feb62)
231841Z
FM USAIRA MEXICO CITY
TO CSAF WASH DC
1127 USAF FAG FT BELVOIR VA//PROTECTED//
INFO CIARC ALBROOK AFB CZ
USAIRAS GUATEMALA BRAZIL VENEZUELA
BT
CONFIDENTIAL XX CITE CHARLIE DASH NINE SGD HARRIS: PARA
MILITARY REP OF EURHPEAN WESTERN NATION ACCREDITED MEXICO
REPORTED TWO TWO FEB HAVING RECD INFO FROM TWO DIFFERENT SOURCES
THAT CUBAN SHIPLOAD OF ARMS HAD DEPARTED EITHER SANTIAGO DE CUBA
OR BAHIA DE NIPE TWO XERO DEGREE FOUR FIVE MINUTES NORTH SEVEN FIVE
DEGREES FOUR XERO MINUTES WEST DURING WEEK OF ONE ONE TO ONE SEVEN
FEB PD SHIP REPORTEDLY HEADED FOR BRITISH GUIANA OR NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PD LOCAL EMB INTEL AGENCIES UNABLE CONFIRM PARA SCP DASH THREE
BT
AUTOMATICALLY CLASSIFIED
DOD DEM 5200:10

ACTION: AF, (ARMY ACSI)
INFO DCSOP ORD
DA IN 205836

AFHQ M 0-309a CONFIDENTIAL
NOV 30
PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF THIS FORM
MAY DE USED
SECRET
The British consul in Santiago de Cuba has informed Washington
and the Governor of British Guiana that two alleged US citizens,
John Allrem Johnson, aged 53, and his wife Margaret Frances Johnson,
were leaving Cuba on 31 December on the Cuban vessel BAHIA DE TANAMA
destined for Georgetown, British Guiana. On board with them were 17
cases in their name, including two large wood crates understood to be
"very similar to those recently unloaded from a Soviet Union ship
in Sentiago de Cuba." The British consul notes the unlikelihood of
US citizens' lesving Cuba in this manner, and the resulting doubt as to
their real identities and intentions. (British Foreign Office to
Washington, No. 9759, 31 December, 1962 (SECRET))
NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 22
SECRET

INFORMATION LEPORT
INFORMATION REPORT
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains information affecting the National. Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage, Laws,: Title
18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
COUNTRY Cuba/British Guiana REPORT NO. 00-K-3,210,102
SUBJECT Shipment of Weapons to British Guiana DATE DISTR. 21 Feb 62

NO. PAGES One
DATE OF
Dec 1962 REFERENCES
INFO. CD/00 Case 36159 H2/05676/G5
PLACE &
--; Dec 1962 Case 35662 78/IWW/DOM-81/CX
DATE ACQ.
SOURCE: THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION
Cuban national, A 12 884 576, who arrived in the US on 3 Feb 1962.
Source is an electrical engineer and advisor to underground groups in Cuba.
[This report was developed by an Army representative assigned to the office
of preparation.]

I was advised by a Cuban merchant marine officer that the Cuban freighter,
"Bahia de Nipe" left Cuba for British Guiana on 22 Dec 1961 with a cargo
shipment of weapons. The boxes containing this equipment were stored
in the bottom of the ship's hold and covered with mattresses and canvas.
A cargo of sugar bags was placed on top of the weapons.
-end-

NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 23
OUTCOING TELEGRAMY Department of State

INDICATE, COLLECT CHARGE TO 02147
FEB 6 10 16 AM "63
LIMITED OFFICIAL USE UNCLASSIFIED MESSAGE REFERRING
TO THIS MESSAGE BY CITE NUMBER
WILL BE DESIGNATED EFTO
36 Origia
ACTION: Anambassy GEORGETOWN 286
EUR
Info:
SS
G The Feb 8 edition of LIFE contains story on Cuba with following
SAL caption under photo of Russian freighter:
ARA
P
USIA QUOTE
SCA
NSC
INR But refugees aboard the Shirley Lykes said two ships put out from
CIA
Mariel (Cuba) only last week with holds loaded with weapons sent by
NSA
OSD Castro to British Guiana. UNQUOTE
ARMY
Would appreciate any available comment.
NAVY
END
AIR
RMR
1963

ACTION: STATE (ARMY ACSI)
INFO DCSOP, OSA, JCS
DA IN 827722
Drafted bys Telegraphie transmission and RUSK
EUR:BNA RTeppericje 2/5/63 classification approved by
Clearancesa
FORM DS-322 LIMITED OFFICIAL. USR REPRODUCTION FROM THIS
COPY IS PROHIBITED
UNLESS FUNCLASSIFIED".
NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 24 000
INCOMING TELEGRAM Department of State
54
Action CONFIDENTIAL Control: 4682
EUR 8 1013 Rec'd: February 7, 1963
1953 12:57 PM
13
Info
/SS
G FROM: Georgetown P
SAL TO: Secretary of State
ARA
P NO: 245, February 7, NOON
USIA
Reference: Department's 286 February 6.
SCA
NSC
Neither harbor master nor shipping companies have any
INR
knowledge Cuban ships en route Georgetown. Guiana Import-
CIA
Export agents for sales rice Cuba, states it is always
NSA
notified as soon as rice ships leave Cuba so that necessary
OSD
arrangements at RMB wharf can be made. It denies having
ARMY
received any notice recently. Governor also reports
NAVY
AIR negative results his inquiries.
MR
CONGEN has had numerous inquiries AP story mentioned TOUSI
18. Appreciate any clarification (not for release to press)
Department can give.
TEK/18 MELBY
CONFIDENTIAL REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS
PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED"
NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 25
C
FBIS 84 OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PARIS AFP IN ENGLISH TO THE FAR EAST 1905 7 FEB 63 E
(EXCERPT) GEORGETOWN--BRITISH GUIANA IN A STATE OF NEAR PANIC
TODAY AFTER NEWSPAPERS AND RADIO STATIONS PUT OUT A
WASHINGTON NEWSPAPER REPORT THAT CUBA WAS SENDING TWO SHIPS
FULL OF SOVIET ARMS TO THIS COUNTRY. PREMIER CHEDDI JAGAN CALLED
THE REPORT FROM THE WASHINGTON EVENING STAR FANTASTIC AND UNFOUNDED.
LA SPOKESMAN IN THE HOME AFFAIRS MINISTRY SAID THE GOVERNMENT
EXPECTED NO ARMS FROM THE SOVIET UNION OR CUBA.
7 FEB 749P FG/OP

OUTGOING TELEGRAM Department of State
INDICATE: COLLECT
Origia
GE TO CONFIDENTIAL 04289
CUDA
FEB 9 11 17 AM '63
59
ACTION: AmConGen GEORGETOWN 293

EUR
Info:
SS UrTel 245
SR intelligence
G Washington testdio agencies have no information to confirm
SP
alleged munitions shipments from Cuba to Georgetown.
SAL
ARA
E Story originated with caption current edition Life Magazine to
STR effect two Russian ships carrying munitions from Mariel, Cuba to BG.
P
USIA O'Leary of Washington Evening Star apparently seized on Life story
SCA
as basis Evening Star article. Unlikely any responsible US official
INR
CIA confirm story as O'Leary alleged in article.
NSA
If repeat if Department is asked by press, we plan say we have
OSD
ARMY no information but are making inquiries.
AVY
AIR
END
RMR
Drafted by: Telegraphic transmission and RUSK
EUR: ENA:RJTepper:ldd 2/8/63 classification approved by:
Clearances:
EUR/BNA - M.