198-10004-10207
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 6/24/201

Agency Information
AGENCY: ARMY
RECORD NUMBER: 198-10004-10207
RECORD SERIES: CALIFANO PAPERS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: ARMY
FROM: JOSEPH A. CALIFANO, JR.
TO: MR. JOHN H. CRIMMINS
TITLE: INTERDEPARTMENTAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE OF CUBAN AFFAIRS: REPORT ON THE STATUS OF ACTIONS DESIGNED TO COUNTER SUBVERSION
DATE: 01/10/1964
PAGES: 62
SUBJECTS:
COUNTERINSURGENCY
CUBAN SUBVERSION
LATIN AMERICA SECURITY
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1C
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/07/1997
OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: Califano Papers, Box 6, Folder 10. Army memo from Joseph Califano to Mr. Crimmins on status of
actions to counter Cuban subversion in Latin America with other related documents.

JFK Assassination Records Review
Department of the Army EO 13526
Declassify Exolude Exempt
Authority,
Review Date 8/12/2015 By Kestover, ADA

v9.1
NW 50955 DocId:32276192 Page 1

5

SECRET
Lt Col Haig/78029/8 Jan 64/md

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. JOHN H. CRIMMINS
Coordinator of Cuban Affairs
Department of State
JAN 1964

SUBJECT: Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban
Affairs: Report on the Status of Implementation of
Actions Designed to Counter Subversion

Enclosed herewith is the Report on the Status of Implementation
of Actions Designed to Counter Subversion for the period 1 December
1963-1 January 1964. The format of this report adheres to the topic
outline disseminated at the meeting of the Subcommittee on Subversion,
September 13, 1963.

It is requested that this office be provided with 12 copies of the
final report. It is assumed that each of the representatives will have
an opportunity to consider the final report before it is forwarded.

Signed
Joseph A. Califano, Jr.
Joseph A. Califano, Jr.
General Counsel
Enclosure
As Stated

Mr. Califano
Lt Col Haig
ASG
OSA 353-CUBA
1/10/64
FW 1/30/63

OSA. ASG. CONTROL NO. 3051-10
SECRET
FILE
DOWNGRADED AT 3 YEM? INTERVALS:
DECLASSIFIED AFTER 12 YEARS
DOD DIR 5200.10

NW 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 2

SECRET
STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION OF ACTIONS TAKEN
BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TO
COUNTER SUBVERSION FOR THE
PERIOD 1 DEC 63 - 1 JAN 64

3. Control of Clandestine Movement of Guerrillas and Arms.

a. General A. P. O'Meara, USA, Commander-in-Chief, US
Southern Command, met with Vice Admiral Ray C. Needham, USN,
Chief of Staff to Commander-in-Chief, Atlantic and members of their
respective staffs during the period 11 to 15 December 1963. Discus-
sions encompassed methods of improving the existing surveillance/
intercept system throughout the Caribbean. Existing US plans were
reviewed, continuance of the ship visit program instituted in Novem-
ber 1963 was agreed upon, and combined exercises to test country
capabilities to intercept simulated intruding ships were planned for
early execution. Discussions by General O'Meara were continued
with the Secretary of the Army and with representatives of the State
Department, CIA and the Joint Staff, Joint Chiefs of Staff.

b. Commander Mine Division 44 with minesweepers USS
STURDY and USS SWERVE completed visits to Central American
ports in Costa Rica, Nicaragua and Guatemala. Deficiencies in the
capabilities of all three countries to counter subversive infiltration
were reported. Additional visits, designed to assist in correcting
deficiencies, are planned. USCINCSO also plans, through Commandera
of US Military Groups, to assist in developing existing capabilities.

c. Based upon information from CAS Panama representative
on 8 November, USCINCSO directed US operations to find a small
boat which reportedly left the Colon Free Zone with a cargo of arms
destined for the vicinity of the Colombian-Venezuelan border. Day-
light visual aerial surveillance flights were instituted immediately,
with radar-equipped aircraft taking over surveillance during hours
of darkness. Colombian and Venezuelan authorities were notified
through US diplomatic channels, but no direct communications
between US surveillance aircraft and Colombian forces in the
vicinity of the probable landing area were established before termi-
ation on 14 November. This effort, though not successful, has
evoked considerable effort by US State Department, Defense Depart-
ment and CIA activities to improve capabilities and procedures.
SECRET
DOWNGRADED A 3 FR TERVALS:
DECLASSIFIED AFTER 12 YEARS
DOD DIR 5200.10

NW 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 3

SECRET
d. Action was commenced in the Colon area to provide means
to keep track of ships and boats entering or leaving the Colon Free
Zons in order to monitor the movements of those suspected of carrying
contraband. Assistance to USCINCSO was provided from the continental
United States in carrying out surveys as to equipment required on as
secretive a basis as possible, and special optical equipment to include
probable night television was approved by the Secretary of the Army
for expedited delivery to USCINCSO.

e. A joint survey and mobile training team from USCINCSO
continued assistance to Venezuelan authorities in improving indigenous
capabilities for surveillance and interception of intruders.

f. A US Southern Command Operations Plan 50-63 was developed
to provide for three levels of operational assistance to Venezuela in
surveillance and intercept operations. Representatives of the US Strike
Command and the Air Defense Command visited USCINCSO to assist in
developing detailed supporting plans.

g. Information was obtained by USCINCSO concerning in-country
communications capabilities of Colombia and Venezuela to receive and
disseminate surveillance information provided by US forces.

5. Strengthening of Counterinsurgency Capabilities.

a. US Army training included the following: 13 students from 6
countries completed CI operations course in the Canal Zone; 8 students
from 5 countries completed CI orientation course in the Canal Zone;
24 students from 8 countries completed Military Intelligence course
in the Canal Zone; 11 Chilean studente completed special Military
Intelligence orientation course, three Canal Zone-based CI Mobile
Training Teams (MTT) carried out training programs in Ecuador,
Peru and Venezuela; and one Canal Zone-based CI MTT commenced
a training program of Panamanian National Guardsmen.

b. US Navy training included the following:

(1) The Small Craft Inspection and Training Team
(SCIATT) completed training the third claes of Central American
nationals, bringing to 63 the total number of students trained since
May 1963.
NW 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 4
2
SECRET

SECRET
(2) The semiannual maintenance check of two
Panamanian 40 foot Coast Guard Utility Boats (CGUBS) was com-
menced on 16 December by an on-the-job training (OJT) program.
Work should be completed by 10 January 1964.

(3) Work was temporarily suspended on two 40 foot
COUBs in Costa Rica due to the lack of critical epare parto. It is
anticipated work will be completed by 15 January 1964.

c. Increases in the stock levels of the Canal Zone stockpile
of riot control equipment were directed on 20 December 1963. In-
creases will enable USCINCSO to respond to urgent requests from
Latin American governments. Buildup concerned primarily tear
gas grenades, gas masks, carbines and shotgun ammunition.

d. Final arrangements were made with the Bertram Boat
Company of Miami for delivery of 10 outboard-inboard fiber glasa
boats to Cabamis, Venezuela for use in the Lake Maracaibo area.
Boats, spares and an MTT will be delivered to destination by
14 January 1964.

e. Action has been taken to expedite the shipment of radio-
electronic gear to Jamaica for use in the joint surveillance program
designed to combat Castro-inspired insurgency in the Caribbean
area. Equipment should arrive in Jamaica within the next few weeks.

1. A US Air Force Air Commando MTT demonstrated in
Asuncion, Paraguay.

8. Other Special Actions.

a. Latin American Military Communications System (LAMCS)
in Ecuador and Nicaragua and the Ground-to-Air facilities in Ecuador
have been completed.

b. Authority to proceed with the LAMCS in Honduras was
received from the US State Department on 17 December 1963. This
facility should be completed within 120 days.

c. Emergency power units to improve reliability of US Army
and Air Force Mission radio stations in Colombia and Venezuela,
shipped from the United States, arrived in Bogota and Caracas res-
pectively.
NW 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 5
3
SECRET

353
CUBA
091.411
020
Staff
031.2
201
JCS
Reynolds, John
12
SECRET
ASGOSA
1-2-63

From: John Reynolds, KCS
To: C/Staff
Subj: Interdepartmental Coordinating Comte of Cuban Affairs: Rpt on Status of
Implementation of Actions Designed to Counter Subversion (U)

rw Incl: None
Dis: Col. Haig 1-3-64
FW 1-30-63
OSA FORM 3
31 MAY 49
OSA 3004
THIS PAPER BELONGS TO:
Administrative Support Group Division, Office of the
Secretary of the Army
NW 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 6
OSA
353
Cuba
1-2-63
FW 1-30-63
* U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1963-683865

CONFIDENTIAL
SAOGC/LtColHaig/lc/59856/18Dec63.

December 18, 1963
OSA 353 CUBA
12-18-63
FW 1-30-63

MEMORANDUM FOR COLONEL WADE ROBERT
Office of the Secretary of Defense
(International Security Affairs)
SUBJECT: State Paper Entitled "Terrorism in the Latin
American Countries on the Critical Insurgency List"

Enclosed herewith is a paper prepared by a member of the
Cuban Coordinating Committee at the Department of State (Mr.
William Bowdler, 182-3736) for use by the Department of State
representative at the Special Group (Counterinsurgency) meeting on
December 19, 1963. The paper was provided to this office by State
on December 18 with the request that Department of Defense
comments, particularly on the basic memorandum, be obtained.
Although this office is very much concerned with the aspects of the
paper which deal with the problem of Castro-inspired subversion,
the broader implications of the paper pertain to the Latin American
area and the military assistance programs related thereto. These
are, of course, matters of primary concern to your office. There-
fore, the attached paper is forwarded to you for appropriate action
with the request that your comments, if any, be coordinated with
this office so that they can be correlated to actions currently under
the purview of this office.

Signed:
A. M. Haig
Lt Colonel, USA
Moseph A. Califano, Jr.
General Counsel
Enclosure
As Stated

OSA, ASG
Mr Califano
LtCol Haig
CONFIDENTIAL
NW 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 7

CONFIDENTIAL
SAOGC/LtColHaig/lc/59856/18Dec63

December 18, 1963
OSA 353 CUBA
12-18-63
FW 1-30-63

MEMORANDUM FOR DIRECTOR, DDR&E
Office of the Secretary of Defense
SUBJECT: Anti-Sabotage Operations in Latin America

The Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban
Affairs (ICCOCA) has recently considered a CIA proposal to provide
guidance to US firms in Latin America confronted with Castro-
communist inspired sabotage of their facilities and assets. CIA has
contracted for the preparation of a report which will consolidate the
experiences of several US firms in Latin America in combatting
sabotage. After consideration by the ICCOCA this report will be
furnished through our country teams in Latin America to local US
firms to assist them in instituting appropriate anti-sabotage programs.

I would be most grateful if you would prepare a brief report
designed to supplement the CIA project which would include enumera-
tion of general guidelines which might be adopted by US firms in the
Latin American area in combatting sabotage. In particular, an
enumeration of known appropriate anti-sabotage devices available on
the commercial market together with the manufacturer's names would
be most helpful.

A member of my staff has discussed this project with Mr.
Phelps of your staff, who has indicated that DDR&E might be of assist-
ance in this matter based on a recent field trip to Venezuela where
problems peculiar to that area were studied at the request of the US
Ambassador. It is also possible that commercial devices developed
for South Vietnam would have applicability in Latin America. Весаиве
this project is designed for distribution to several Latin American
countries, it is requested that where possible guidelines be developed
which might have general application throughout Latin America, but
with emphasis on key subversive target areas. Present plans antici-
pate finalization of this project by December 23, 1963.
OSA, ASG
Mr Califano
LtCol Haig
Signed:
A. M. Haig
Lt. Colonel, USA
Joseph Toseph A. Califano, Jr.
General Counsel
forsa
CONFIDENTIAL
NW 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 8

SECRET
17 DEC 1966
A
OSA 353 CUBA
12-17-66
FW 136063
1-30-63

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. JOHNH. CRIMMINS
SUBJECT:
Coordinater of Cuban Affairs
Department of State
Interdepartmental Coordinating Conimittee of Cuban
Affairs: Report on the Status of Implementation of
Actions Designed to Counter Subversion

Enclosed herewith is the Report on the Status of Implementation
of Actions Designed to Counter Subversion for the period I November-
1 December 1963. The format of this report adheres to the topic out-
line disseminated at the meeting of the Subcommittee on Subversion,
September 13, 1963.

It is requested that this office be provided with 12 copies of the
final report. It is assumed that each of the representatives will have
an opportunity to consider the final report before it is forwarded.

Signed
Joseph A. Califano, Jr.
Joseph A. Califano, Jr.
General Counsel
Enclosur
As Stated

Mr. Califano
Lt Col Haig
ASG
PECBELVBA OF THE VYWA
OLLIGE
DEC 1882 VW.03.
OLLIGE
DOUNGRANDA 3 MAR COERVALS
AIE SECRETICIPA
OSA, ASG Control No. 29758
NW 50955 DocId:32276192 Page 9
DATE 10 VEERS
DOD DER 5200.10

SECRET
STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION OF ACTIONS TAKEN
BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TO
COUNTER SUBVERSION FOR THE
PERIOD 1 NOV - 1 DEC 1963

3. Control of Clandestine Movement of Guerrillas and Arms.

a. On 9 November 1963 the Commander-in-Chief, US
Southern Comunand (USCINCSO) advised the Joint Chiefs of Staff
(JCS) of reports concerning suspected subversive arme smuggling
into Venezuela or Colombia from the Colon Free Zone, Panama.
USCINCSO initiated surveillance at first light on 9 November 1963
to detect and track surface vessels which might be engaged in the
subversive traffic. The JCS directed the Commander-in-Chief,
Atlantic (CINCLANT) to commence surveillance with radar equipped
aircraft and to keep USCINCSO advised of all information. Sus-
pected craft were not positively identified or intercepted; however,
there were indications that an unidentified surface vessel off the
Rio Hacha area of Colombia and in Colombian watere was probably
in contact with small boats operating from the Colombian coastline
at night.

b. As directed by the Joint Chiefs of Staff, USCINESO
developed a plan under which the United States could provide assist-
ance to Venezuelan forces, on three levels of participation, designed
to prevent the surreptitious movement of Castro-Communist arms
and personnel into Venezuela. To be fully effective, the plan calls
for US elements operating from Venezuelan territory which is not
considered a likely subject for approval by the Government of
Venezuela at the present time.

c. A joint survey and mobile training team of eleven men was
provided by USCINCSO to Venezuela on 22 November 1963, upon
approval of the concept by the Government of Venezuela. The purpose
of the team is to train Venezuelan military personnel in organizing
and operating a joint operations center; in improving capabilities
in the plotting and coordination of intelligence data, and aerial photo-
graphy; and in coordinating all Venezuelan military and paramilitary
organizations involved in surveillance and intercept operations.
NW 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 10
SECRET
DOWNGRADED AT 3 YEAR INTERVALS
DECLASSIFIED AFTER 12 YEARS
DOD DIR 5200.10

SECRET
1
5. Strengthening of Counterinsurgency Capabilities.

a. Two minesweepers from the US Atlantic Command, USS
STURDY and USS SWERVE with Commander Mine Division 44 em-
barked, commenced a schedule of visits to Caribbean perts in Costa
Rica, Nicaragua and Guatemala. Visits are intended to assist each
country in improving its coastal and off-shore surveillance effort,
to improve intercept capabilities with respect to the prevention of
infiltration of arms and subversive personnel through the countries'
territorial waters, and to establish procedures which would provide
for US assistance in final interception when requested. Visits in
November, under the supervision of USCINCSO, covered Puerto
Limon, Costa Rica; Bluefields and Puerto Cabezas, Nicaragua; and
Puerto Barrios, Guatemala.

b. Seventy-eight Latin American officere, previously en-
rolled, were in attendance during November at courses stressing
counterinsurgency conducted by the US Army Canal Zone school.
Two officers graduated from the US Army Counterinsurgency Course
at Fort Bragg, North Carolina on 12 November 1963 and two addi-
tional officers are now in attendance.

c. Seven US Army Counterinsurgency Mobile Training Teams
based in the Canal Zone, consisting of twenty officers and thirty-five
enlisted men, provided training in seven Latin American countries
during November.

d. Nine enlisted men from Chile were in attendance at
Marine Corps schools at Camp Pendleton, California in November.

US Coast Guard training in small boat operations was
provided in the Canal Zone for fifteen students from five Caribbean
countries in the operation and maintenance of forty-foot Coast Guard
utility boats. A Coast Guard mobile training team of one officer and
two enlisted men, based in the Canal Zone, provided training in
Costa Rica for the reconditioning of Coast Guard utility boats. Five
members of the Costa Rican Guardia Civil are receiving on-the-job
training in connection with reconditioning of the boats.
NW 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 11
2
SECRET

SECRET
LA US Air Force counterinsurgency team of five officers
and eight enlisted men, based in the Canal Zone, provided training
for Ecuadorian Air Force personnel in Ecuador.

g. At the request of USCINSO, and with the enthusiastic
support of the Venezuelan Government, a small boat program has
been initiated to provide security for the Lake Maracaibo region.
Arrangements have been made through the US Navy under Military
Credit Sales agreement for the manufacture of six (6) 25-foot and
four (4) 31-foot inboard-outboard, fiberglass hull boats by Bertram
Boat Company, Miami, for delivery in December 1963 or early
January 1964. A SEAL-trained Mobile Training Team (MTT) of
one officer and five enlisted men will be provided by the Navy and
will report to the equipment supplier in time to become fully ac-
quainted with the boats by 15 December. The MTT will accompany
the boats to Venezuela and will remain up to two months in country
to provide necessary familiarization training.

6. Exchange of Intelligence on Cuban Surveillance.

a. Upon receipt of intelligence pertaining to suspected arms
smuggling from the Canal Free Zone, Panama into Colombia or
Venezuela, the USCINCSO relayed this information to Colombia and
Venezuela by the Military Alerting System. The US Ambassador to
Colombia conveyed the information to the Government of Colombia.
Colombian Navy and Air Force elements were assigned increased
surveillance missions in the Caribbean coastal area of Colombia by
Colombian military authorities and results of their surveillance
activities were provided to USCINCSO by the US Military Group
Commander in Colombia. The results of US air surveillance of
the expected route and landing area, undertaken by US Air Force
and Naval air elements were transmitted to the US Military Group
Commander in Colombia for passage to the Colombian military
authorities.

b. The motor vessel BLUE STAR, of Panamanian registry,
was apprehended by Ecuadorian authorities in November 1963 as
it was attempting the clandestine introduction of contraband articles
NW 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 12
SECRET
1

SECRET
into Ecuador. Ship movement information had been provided to the
US Naval Attache Bogota by the District Intelligence Officer of the
Fifteenth Naval District. There was no apparent involvement of
Cuban arme or Cuban trained personnel in this instance.

7. Other Special Actions.

a. Construction is now in progress on the Latin American
Military Communications System (LAMCS) in Quito, Ecuador; the
terminal station is expected to be completed in December 1963.
The station in Nicaragua is expected to be completed in early
December 1963.

b. In response to a request by USCINCSO, action was taken
on 15 November 1963 to expedite delivery of communications equip-
ment required to implement a Jamaican integrated coastal surveillance
system. The system was originally approved as part of the $500
thousand one-time grant of Military Assistance material directed
by the President in April 1963, but world-wide shortages of specific
items threatened to delay shipment in some cases until FY 1965. In
view of the urgency of this requirement, priorities were adjusted
to provide delivery by 1 January 1964. The items include:

12 AN/CRC radios and installation kits
3 AN/ARC 3 radios
1 AN/PSM 6
1 Wattmeter

c. The Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Office of Public Safety,
State-AID, are studying the possibility of increasing the stock level
of certain items of Riot Control Equipment in the Canal Zone, in order
to meet rapidly and effectively multiple contingencies that may occur
in Latin America. In the past, the size of some requests have neceesi-
tated shipment of certain items directly from the United States, with
resultant increase in cost and time. USCINCSO has been asked for
his recommendations on stock levels.
NW 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 13
SECRET

RTMENT OF DEFENSE
30 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
CONFIDENTIAL
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20301

INTERNATIONAL SECURITY AFFAIRS
2 DEC 1963
In reply refer to:
1-28596/63
MEMORANDUM FOR MR. JOSEPH A. CALIFANO, JR., THE GENERAL COUNSEL,
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
SUBJECT: Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban Affairs:
Report on Status of Implementation of Actions to Counter
Subversion (U)

The enclosure to your Memorandum No. 81, subject as above, dated
26 November 1963, has been received. The report appears to be
complete and appropriate for submission to the President.

SIGNED
Frank K. Sloan
Deputy Assistant Secretary

t
Any-Ma Calland
DOWNGRADED AT 3 YEAR INTERVALS;
DECLASSIFIED AFTER 12 YEARS.
DOD DIR 5200.10
OLLICE
PECKELVKA OF THE VBWA
CONFIDENTIAL
DEC 11 Je W.23
OLLICL
Сооногих пои & UEC०४०
C125VLCHED
NW 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 14
OSA 353 Cuba 12-2-63 f/w 1-30-63
ΑΣΕ

SECRET
26 NOV 1963,
OAA 353 Cuba 11-26-63 f/w 1-30-63
MEMORANDUM NO. 81 FOR GENERAL EARLE G. WHEELER (JCS)
SUBJECT:
MB. FRANK K. SLOAN, Dep Asst Sac/Def ISA
(Regional Affairs)
MAJOR GENERAL J. D. ALGER, USA
REAR ADMIRAL W. F. A. WENDT, USN
MAJOR GENERAL J. W. CARPENTER, HI, USAF
BRIGADIER GENERAL C. J. QUILTER, UGMC
Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban Affairs:
Report on Status of Implementation of Actions Designed to
Counter Subversion (U)
DA Meme 964, subject as above, dated September 19, 1963
Reference:
the Subcommittee on Coban Subversion on Progress Made During September
Attached herewith is a Anal draft of the Report to the President of
1963 ia Curbing Cuban Subversion in Latin America.
It is requested that comments, if any, be provided this office by
1200 hours, 2 December 1963. The Department of Defense portion of
subject report is based on submissions provided in response to referenced
MOMOTAndum.
Enclosure
As Stated
Signed
Joseph A. Califano, Jr.
Joseph A. Califano, Jr.
General Counsel
i
cc:
Mr. Yarmolinsky (OSD)
Lt Col Haig
Mr. Califano
ASG-
SECRET FILE
OSA, ASG Control No. 27071
NW 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 15
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC REGRADING
DOD DIR 5200.10 DOES NOT APPLY

H
DRAFT
11/13/63
SECRET

REPORT OF THE SUB-COMMITTEE
on CUBAN SUBVERSION
 ACTION TAKEN DURING SEPTEMBER 1953 IN CURBING
CURAN SUBVERSION IN LATIN AMERICA

SECRET

SECRET
DRAFT
11/13/63
Control of Travel to and From Cuba

Department of State

a. Instructed Embassy Tunis to call to the attention
of the Foreign Ministry our concern at increased evidence
of Aeroflot attempts to establish North Africa routes to
Cuba, especially through Algeria, and our conviction that
Tunisie has a valid case in thwarting any Bloc civil air
penetration of Africa.

Instructed Embassy Conakry to contact Guinean Coverm
ment officials, reminding them of their past assurances
that no Aeroflot flights to Cuba would be permitted to
use Conakry facilities, and to express our concern et
recent indications that Aeroflot was preparing to establish
service to Cuba via Conakry.

C
Instructed Consulate Fort au France to investigate
and report on alleged landing and refuelling of Cubana
sircraft at Guadeloupe. Also double-checked directly
with the Shell Company, the supplier of the fuel.

Instructed Embassy Paris to query the French Goverment
about alleged Cubens use of the Guadeloupe facility, and
12
to express our concern at this evidence of Cuba's attempt
to use French Caribbean dependencies for flights to and
NW 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 17
SECRET
From

SECRET
2
from Latin America.

d. Instructed Embassy Rio to make a new approach to
the Brazilian Foreign Ministry to express our concern
at Cuba's continuing use of "charter" flights to Brazil
and the laxity of Brazilian officials in the control of
passengers. During the course of the month the Brazilian
Goverment began tightening controls against Cubana
flights. Specifically, all requests for landing permission
vere henceforth to be processed by the Foreign Office,
with appropriate delays. Also tighter passenger, crew
and cargo controls were to be instituted when a Cubana
flight is permitted to use Brazilien facilities.

Determined that the U.K. had specifically werned
Cubana that no aviation fuel was available in Barbados and
that H.M.G. would, in the future, respect Shell Company's
decision to deny fueling to Cubana planes.

f. Continued inter-Departmental efforts to prevent
resumption of ferry service between Cuba and the U.S.
which a British citizen, Herold Derber, has been attempt-
ing to establish during the past several month.
NW 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 18
SECRET

SECRET
3
Instructed Consul Georgetown to investigate and
report on evidence the Department received which indicates
that Cuba is planning to sell merchant vessels to British
Guiana in order to facilitate the establishment of
regular service for passengers and cargo.

i
Central Intelligence Agency
In connection with the Seventh Congress of the
International Union (UIA) held in Habana September 29 -
October 3, 1963 the Buenos Aires Station:
(1) encouraged the Argentine National Federation
of Architects to oppose Argentine attendance at the
Habane meeting, with the result that 25 of the 39
practicing architects who had planned to attend can-
celled their participation;

(2) arranged to prevent the attendance of any
officially authorized Argentine delegation at the Habana
meeting, but encouraged the attendance of an official
Argentine delegation of anti-Communist coloration at an
international architects meeting to be held in Mexico
ià October;
NW 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 19
SECRET
(3)

SECRET
(3) delivered a nemorandum to the Minister of
Interior concerning Cuban charter flights to Brazil which
supported the Ambassador's request that the Argentine
government express concern over such flights.

1
b. Rio de Janeiro Station continued to furnish
the Embassy with data on Cubana flights to Brazil used
in representations to the Brazilian Foreign Office.
Also induced Rio airport officials to impose stringent
passport control and baggage efforts. These efforts
contributed to the Brazilian Covernment's failing το
issue landing permits for Cubana flights on September
21, 24 and 25, 1963 forcing their cancellation. When
Cubana, because of harassment at Rio, began using the
landing facilities in Sao Paulo where controls were
non existent, CIA initiated and obtained a local liaison
egreement for similar harassment in the event of future
Cubana flights to Sao Paulo.

c. Mexico City station inspired a press campaiga
of hoof and mouth and smallpox epidemics in Cuba, prior
to the Architects Congress to discourage participation
in the Habana meeting. The resulting quarantines and
innoculations
NW 50955 DocId:32276192 Page 20

SECRET
innoculations were a factor in discouraging 52 of the
60 Mexican professional architects who were expected to
go to Habana from attending the Congress.

II. Control of Movement of Propaganda
Mectures to countant
NW 50955 DoeId: 32276192 Page 21

III. Control of Clandestine Novement of Guerrillaa
and arms
Department of State
Made the necessary arrangements through Embassy
Tegucigalpa with the Government of Honduras for the
dispatch of three U.S. helicopters to give logistical
assistance to the Honduran Army in its effort to locate
and eliminate the band of guerrillas allegedly operating
in the Fatuca River area along the Honduran-Nicaraguan
border.

Department of Defense
Three OH-13 helicopters from USSOUTECOM supported
Honduran armed forces conducting counter-insurgency
operations in the Patuca River area. A total of 27 sorties
were flown resulting in delivery of 3928 pounds of supplies,
evacuation of 12 sick Honduran soldiers, airlift of 19
passengers to points in the operational area, and
recovery of 400 pounds of supplies from the operational
area.
NW 50955 DocId:32276192 Page 22
SECRET
IV.

SECRET
7
IV. Control of Transfer of Funds

Department of State
Instructed Embassy Mexico City to inform the
Mexican airline SAESA that their proposal to purchase
surplus Cuban aircraft would in fact result in the
accrual to Cuba of a significant amount of hard currency,
and the U.S. would have to oppose the transaction.
Further, if dollars were involved in the purchase,
it would be a violation of the Cuban Assets Control
Regulations.

b. Informed Department of Treasury, Foreign Assets
Control Office, of the activities of Sowondelp Enterprises,
a Miami fira engaged in sending remittances to persons
in Caba in violation of the Cuban Assets Control
Regulations.

Instructed Consulate, Belize to inform
Mr. Richard Joyce, an American national, that his
comercial transactions with Cuba were in violation
of the Cubea Assets Control Regulations and that he
 is prohibited from engaging in such trade.
NW 50955 DocId:32276192 Page 23
:

SECRET
